Airberlin goes bankrupt soon after announcing major Chicago expansion
Airberlin has filed for bankruptcy protection , potentially imperiling service to Chicago .
Air Berlin , Germany 's second-largest airline , has filed for bankruptcy protection , a move that could imperil the carrier 's existing daily service between Chicago 's O'Hare International Airport and Berlin , as well as a new Chicago-Dusseldorf route announced earlier this month .
The bankruptcy filing came , according to The Associated Press , after the carrier 's largest shareholder , Etihad Airways , refused to provide additional financing to keep the carrier afloat .
Airberlin has filed for bankruptcy protection , potentially imperiling service to Chicago .
The German government is said to have provided Airberlin with a loan to keep the carrier from shutting down immediately and to ensure travelers on summer vacation have a chance to get home .
An Airberlin spokesperson could not be immediately reached for further comment .
Curiously , the bankruptcy filing comes just two weeks after Airberlin announced an aggressive expansion of its service from Chicago .
The carrier said it would launch on May 2 , 2018 , five-times-a-week service between O'Hare and Dusseldorf , Germany on a widebody Airbus 330-200 aircraft seating a whopping 290 people .
Dusseldorf is a major business hub in Germany , and the metropolitan region there is said to be home to some 11 million people .
Several Chicago businesses have a major presence in Dusseldorf .
When Airberlin announced the Dusseldorf service , the Chicago Department of Aviation immediately touted the new route as an economic boon to the Windy City , predicting it would generate $ 65 million in annual economic impact in the Chicago region .
That $ 65 million economic impact is now in great peril .
Airberlin had been using Terminal 3 for its flight departures to Berlin .
Terminal 3 is home to American Airlines , a sister member of the One World airline alliance .
But an American Airlines spokeswoman today said that arrangement ended earlier this year .
`` Frankly we needed the real estate , '' the AA spokeswoman said .
Since then , Airberlin 's flights have been arriving and departing from O'Hare 's international Terminal 5 .
In a bid to raise capital to continue operating , Airberlin might seek to sell some of its most lucrative routes to competitors , including Lufthansa , Germany 's largest airline .
Lufthansa , which has a codesharing agreement with Chicago-based United Airlines , already is a major presence at O'Hare with direct service from there to Munich , Germany , and Frankfurt , Germany , a high-traffic route it has long operated out of Chicago .
Lufthansa several years ago also briefly introduced an all-business-class service between Chicago and Dusseldorf , but it was short-lived .
Whether Lufthansa would be in the market to add nonstop service between Chicago and Berlin to its route system or revisit the Chicago-Dusseldorf route remains to be seen .
The carrier might prefer to ferry customers to Berlin and Dusseldorf through its hubs in Frankfurt and Munich .