$ 900M investment at PHL to bring new traffic control tower , remodeled terminals
A $ 900 million infrastructure investment at Philadelphia International Airport led by American Airlines dedicates nearly half the funds to maintenance and repairs of the airfield and terminals , while the next largest piece -- $ 200 million -- will go towards making good on the promise made in the 2015 lease agreement for a new air traffic control tower .
American Airlines and PHL announced Tuesday an agreement to continue to make `` critical improvements and to develop new infrastructure '' at the city 's International Airport and Philadelphia Northeast Airport at a total cost of $ 893.8 million .
The investment is broken down into several key initiatives :
Maintenance & repair projects : $ 395.9 million
New air traffic control tower : $ 197.5 million
Terminal modernization program enabling projects : $ 96.5 million
Fuel farm expansion : $ 94.6 million
Deicing facility conversion : $ 43.2 million
Terminal B concession redevelopment : $ 32.8 million
Land acquisition : $ 27.1 million
Capital equipment : $ 6.2 million
For more details on this project , which is already underway , click here .
The bulk of the dollars are being spent on PHL -- with $ 26 million earmarked for improvements and upgrades at the Northeast Airport .
The funding for the projects comes from the airlines , according to Rhett Workman , American Airline 's managing director of government and airport affairs .
`` It is worth noting that these investments are not funded by taxpayer dollars .
Instead , they are an investment in the region by the 15 airlines that serve the airport , '' Workman said in a statement .
Workman told Philly.com plans to set up an `` automated ` people mover ' '' have put put aside and the existing connector bus system -- with tweaked routes and the addition of 12 new buses - will continue to cart passengers between terminals .
All of the announced projects , overseen by the Division of Aviation and American Airlines , are expected to be completed within the next five to seven years , the airport and American said .
PHL Airport CEO Chellie Cameron , in a statement , pointed to the economic impact the investment will have on the Philadelphia region .
`` We want our passengers to know that when they choose PHL today , they will receive efficient and comfortable service .
As we grow in the future , it will only get better .
Also , the direct and indirect jobs created by these projects will help keep the Philadelphia region thriving , '' Cameron said .
In the joint statement , PHL and American said the projects will generate nearly $ 4 billion in economic output in Greater Philadelphia over the next five years .