Delta Air Lines finds competition intense in May on-time arrivals race
Delta Air Lines , long used to being hailed as the undisputed leader in on-time performance , found itself in a real horse race in May .
Airline performance data behemoth OAG released its May on-time arrival data this morning , and three of the four major domestic carriers found themselves bunched fairly tightly in the on-time arrival competition .
Yes , Delta Air Lines still won the month , with 81.1 percent of flights arriving on time .
The United States Department of Transportation considers a flight to have arrived on time if it reaches the gate within 14 minutes of its scheduled arrival time .
But Chicago-based United Airlines -- clearly pushing hard in the wake of the ugly United Express Flight 3411 man-dragged-from-plane incident in April -- finished May with a strong second-place performance .
OAG reported that 80.1 percent of United 's flights reached the gate on time .
And that figure includes mainline as well as regional flights , which have in recent years had a more spotty performance than have United 's mainline operations .
United is a unit of United Continental Holdings.
Like all the other domestic carriers that have been eating Delta 's dust for years in the on-time arrivals race , American Airlines last year upped its efforts to improve on-time performance .
And the May results show that AA , the world 's largest carrier , got 79.7 percent of its flights to the gate on time .
That put AA in third place , but still not far off the pace .
The laggard in May was low-fare behemoth Southwest Airlines .
Southwest got 77.6 percent of its flights to the gate on time , according to OAG .
Southwest shifted to a new reservations system last month , which might have been a factor in its fourth-place finish .
Or it just may be that as Southwest ramps up for the peak summer season the carrier is finding it tougher to juggle more flights and get them where they need to be on schedule .
On the flight cancellation front , however , Southwest had the least number of cancellations , percentage wise , for May , with 0.4 percent of all flights cancelled .
Delta was second best in this department with 0.7 percent of flights cancelled .
American Airlines cancelled 1.2 percent of its flights , and United cancelled 1.3 percent .