American Airlines Backtracks a Bit on Its Legroom-Reduction Plan
Airlines has scrapped its plan to have three rows with just 29 inches of seat pitch on its new 737 MAX 8 fleet .
Last month , American Airlines announced that it would go where no U.S. legacy carrier had ever gone before , reducing seat pitch -- the distance between rows -- to as little as 29 inches in some rows on its new Boeing 737 MAX 8 fleet .
American Airlines has now reversed that decision .
It will provide a minimum seat pitch of 30 inches on the 737 MAX 8 .
However , this is still a more cramped configuration than what American currently offers on most of its planes .
As legacy carriers continue to reduce passenger legroom in a drive to cut costs , it could cause more and more travelers to defect to more customer-friendly airlines , such as JetBlue Airways and Southwest Airlines .
Cost creep has held American Airlines back In the past couple of years , runaway costs have become a big problem for American Airlines .
American 's management has indicated that cost growth should slow considerably in 2018 .
Yet the company clearly has to do more work to match its competitors in terms of unit costs .
American Airlines ' unit costs have surged in recent years .
This is probably the ultimate genesis of American Airlines ' campaign to squeeze more seats into its next-generation aircraft .
American flies its current fleet of nearly 300 737-800 s with a 160-seat configuration .
But the carrier is determined to fit 172 seats onto the new 737 MAX 8 , even though it 's the same size as the 737-800 .
American tweaks its plan When it announced its configuration for the new 737 MAX 8 last month , American Airlines said it would reduce economy-seat legroom to make space for the two extra rows .
Under that plan , most economy rows would have had 30 inches of pitch , but three rows would have been even more cramped , with just 29 inches of seat pitch .
Not surprisingly , customers and consumer advocates were outraged .
In fact , the backlash was big enough that American Airlines recently changed its intended configuration for the 737 MAX 8 , ensuring that each row will have at least 30 inches of legroom .
To accomplish this while still adding two rows of seating , American Airlines will shrink its extra-legroom Main Cabin Extra section by one row .
This is probably a wise trade-off , as a move to 29 inches of seat pitch in even a few rows could have done significant damage to American 's brand .
That said , its new solution means frequent fliers may have fewer upgrade opportunities while economy-seat legroom will still shrink relative to the current fleet .
JetBlue and Southwest have an edge In an odd twist of fate , carriers such as JetBlue Airways and Southwest Airlines -- which were originally conceived as discount airlines -- are now perceived to have better service than the legacy carriers .
They also have the most legroom in the industry .
JetBlue offers at least 32 inches of seat pitch on all of its planes .
Southwest Airlines ' 737-700s have 31 inches of pitch , but the 737-800s that represent a rising proportion of its fleet have 32 inches of pitch .
Its new 737 MAX 8 fleet will maintain that roomy configuration .
JetBlue offers the most legroom of any U.S. airline .
American Airlines contends that passengers wo n't feel the reduction in legroom as it switches to 30 inches of pitch , because it will use new space-saving slim-line seats .
Yet JetBlue and Southwest also use slim-line seats for the most part , so the difference will be noticeable .
Surveys showed that customer consideration of JetBlue Airways and Southwest Airlines rose after United Continental 's recent passenger-dragging incident .
In a similar way , JetBlue and Southwest may be able to capitalize on shrinking legroom at American Airlines and other carriers .
The perception that these `` discount airlines '' offer a more pleasant travel experience than the legacy carriers is likely to become even more widespread in the coming years .
Will American Airlines pay the price ?
American Airlines competes head-to-head with Southwest Airlines and/or JetBlue Airways in numerous markets .
If its moves to reduce legroom affect its reputation with travelers , the carrier could definitely lose some business to Southwest and JetBlue .
That said , American Airlines has a hub-and-spoke business model .
While it certainly carries plenty of point-to-point traffic , its real competitive advantage is in serving customers traveling to or from smaller cities , as well as people traveling internationally .
JetBlue and Southwest do n't participate in many of these markets .
To a large extent , this situation should protect American Airlines from market-share losses -- for now .
However , JetBlue and Southwest have ambitious growth plans for the coming years .
Those plans are likely to gradually bring them into competition with American Airlines in markets where the latter mainly faces off against its fellow legacy carriers today .
Reducing passenger legroom might pay off for American Airlines in the next few years .
But it could make the company ripe for disruption in the future .
Adam Levine-Weinberg owns shares of Boeing and JetBlue Airways and is long January 2019 $ 10 calls on JetBlue Airways .
The Motley Fool recommends JetBlue Airways .