Airlines Have a Cost Problem and It 's Not $ 12 Snack Boxes
Are airlines facing a cost problem ?
Morgan Stanley 's Rajeev Lalwani and his team tackle that question today , and warn that investors may not be giving the issue as much attention as it deserves .
Lalwani asked investors their opinions on the topic , after a number of airlines stated that there would be headwinds in 2018 and offered other longer-term downbeat commentary .
For their part , investors were mixed , with about 61 % saying that there is a cost problem for airlines , and 39 % arguing that there is not .
For those who think there is a problem , they cite that 2018 's Cost Per Available Seat Mile ( CASM ) of about 1 % to 2 % excluding fuel wo n't be enough to outweigh moderate revenue trends .
Add in higher fuel costs , and it seems a recipe for lower margins .
However , those who do n't see a problem argue that revenue/supply is the more pressing issue for airlines , building on the trend in recent years .
So which side does Lalwani think is right ?
He thinks that in an evironment of elevated capacity , cost headwinds are going to come to the fore : Given a number of headwinds in 2017 labor contracts , fleet transitions , storm impacts , reduced capacity , etc , CASM ex-Fuel moved up ~ 4.5 % , which is ~ 1 point higher than expectations at the start of the year .
And while unit cost growth takes a step-down next year , it still remains above-average , especially when considering the expectation for elevated capacity additions .
This dynamic , along with rising fuel forwards of late , likely leads to ongoing margin degradation from peak levels in 2016 ; however , the cost headwinds and rising fuel could provide a tailwind to RASM next year as carriers are compelled to pass-through some of the pressures .
In a decelerating margin environment , our long-term stock preferences are unchanged Alaska ALK / Delta DAL / Southwest LUV - all Overweight since we continue to prefer higher quality airlines with idiosyncratic revenue potential later in the cycle .
Major airlines including Delta , Alaska , American ( AAL ) and United ( UAL ) are trading up this morning .