American Airlines Marks Down Third Quarter Guidance
American Airlines Group Inc. said flights canceled due to Hurricane Irma will weigh on its earnings in the third quarter .
The nation 's top airline by traffic said Tuesday that its unit revenue will expand up to 1 % in the quarter compared with earlier expectations for as much as a 2.5 % rise year-over-year .
Unit revenue is the amount an airline earns for each seat flown a mile .
American also said higher fuel costs would weigh on its pretax margin in the quarter .
The Fort Worth , Texas-based carrier said its pretax margin will be up to 10.5 % in the quarter , compared with an earlier forecast of up to 12 % .
Most of American 's major rivals already have reined in their third-quarter guidance , citing a deteriorating revenue environment and pricier fuel .
United Continental Holdings Inc. , Southwest Airlines Co. and Spirit Airlines Inc. also disclosed revenue hits from the disruptions caused by Hurricane Harvey in Texas last month .
American , which runs a hub in Miami , is rebuilding its diminished schedule in the wake of Irma , which barreled up the Florida peninsula last weekend after wreaking havoc in the northern Caribbean .
The company said it has canceled about 5,000 flights since Sept. 5 .
Some flights resumed Tuesday in Miami and Fort Lauderdale -- the latter city is a big base for JetBlue Airways Corp. and Spirit .
Orlando , a base for Southwest , reopened on a limited basis Tuesday , as did several other airports including West Palm Beach , Tallahassee , Jacksonville and Gainesville .
American said it plans to restart flights to Tampa and Sarasota on Wednesday .
Carriers are expected to ramp up their daily flights in the coming days , but many customers whose flights were canceled still need to be transported .
Moreover , airlines are contending with hotels full of stranded travelers and are having trouble finding lodging for their crew members .
Cowen & Co. on Tuesday estimated that Irma inflicted $ 139 million of third-quarter harm on the six largest U.S. carriers in the region , led by American , with a $ 35 million price tag .
American declined to comment , and its Tuesday disclosure did n't include a preliminary storm tally .
American shares were up nearly 1 % Tuesday to $ 46.29 .