Will the iPhone 8 Help Apple Boost Its Market Share ?
Apple is losing ground in the smartphone market , and the next iPhone might not help it get any better .
Market research firm Gartner 's latest smartphone market share report clearly shows Apple 's stagnating business .
The iPhone maker 's device sales were flat year over year during the first quarter at around 51 million , according to Gartner , even though the overall smartphone market grew 9 % over the same period .
Not surprisingly , Apple 's smartphone market share dropped 1.1 percentage points from the prior-year period to 13.7 % , as the Chinese triumvirate of Huawei , Oppo , and Vivo clocked massive gains .
Shipment figures are in thousands of units .
China is a problem for Apple
One of the main reasons Apple 's sales are going nowhere is its declining sales in China , the world 's largest smartphone market , accounting for a third of all global sales .
Apple 's iPhone revenue from Greater China has dipped year-over-year for five straight quarters , as homegrown manufacturers have taken the market by storm .
Greater China revenue was $ 10.7 billion in the fiscal second quarter for Apple , about 20 % of the total .
But the revenue from the region was 14 % lower than the Greater China haul from the year-ago quarter , when it made up about 25 % of the total .
What 's more , Chinese original equipment manufacturers OEMs are making a mark in emerging markets and in developed regions such as Europe , thanks to feature-packed phones at reasonable prices .
Will Apple 's next iPhone help it recover ground ?
Apple seems to have a smart strategy for the next iPhone
Cupertino is rumored to be launching three iPhone models this year .
Two of these models could be refreshed versions of the current-generation devices , carrying the 7s and the 7s Plus moniker , while the third could be the more impressive anniversary-edition iPhone 8 .
UBS forecasts that the iPhone 8 could start retailing from $ 870 and might go all the way up to $ 1,070 .
What 's more , UBS analyst Steven Milunovich forecasts that the higher-priced iPhone could make up as much as 45 % of Apple 's total iPhone sales .
A Morgan Stanley report calling for 50 % of the upcoming iPhone models to be equipped with an OLED display backs up that forecast .
This could be a big deal for Apple investors , as Apple could ship around 65 million units of the more expensive device , given other estimates of 130 million units in 2017 .
Therefore , Apple 's revenue would get a nice boost if it can sell all of the iPhone 8 models it manufactures .
It wo n't be surprising if the more expensive iPhone finds a lot of takers , because of the rumored tech that it could be packing .
In addition , the average selling price of smartphones is rising , as customers are willing to shell out more money for better features , according to Gartner , and this trend could also play in Apple 's favor .
Meanwhile , the iPhone upgrade cycle is another catalyst investors should n't miss .
Research firm Bernstein forecasts that 203 million iPhone users will be ready to upgrade to a new device next year , and that 's where the 7s and 7s Plus models could come into play .
A $ 1,000 iPhone might not bring in the volume for Apple , as it might alienate existing customers who are more accustomed to the $ 649 base price .
So it would be doing the right thing by launching two relatively cheaper models that can help it compete effectively against the new Samsung Galaxy S8 and push volume , while the more expensive flagship could help bring in more dough .
China could weigh on the iPhone 8 's success
Apple 's existing user base and the developed markets are definitely going to be a catalyst for the next set of iPhones , but it remains to be seen if the company can make a comeback in China .
Even if Apple comes out with a highly innovative device that captures the imagination of the Chinese customers , its success is n't guaranteed , since Huawei , Oppo , and Vivo are strong players in the country .
For instance , Huawei had close to 50,000 retail locations last year , with a huge majority spread across China .
Oppo , on the other hand , has 200,000 retail locations in the country .
Both of these companies have resorted to offering substantial incentives to retailers and distributors , creating a positive impact on sales .
Apple , meanwhile , has just 40 stores in China and some estimates are that 40 % of smartphone sales in China are done in a physical store .
Apple 's weak access to the Chinese smartphone market could be a constraint for the upcoming set of iPhones , apart from the premium pricing , so Apple might not be able to gain significant ground against its Chinese rivals even if it launches a cutting-edge device .
Investors should n't bet on a resounding success for the upcoming iPhone generation , unless Apple finds a way to move more units in its second-largest market .