Apple Leak Reveals Massive iPhone 8 Cancellation
.
In fact is it arguably the most significant update in iPhone history , but that only means the latest news is only going to make excited users angry ...
Two major new sources - Mac Otakara and the Royal Bank of Canada - have this week said the iPhone 8 release will be significantly delayed with the former also stating colour options will be reduced and one major feature will be cancelled .
Looking at Mac Otakara first , the site ( which has had several notable exclusives in the past ) says the iPhone 8 will not ship until the first quarter of fiscal 2018 - which for Apple translates to October to November .
It believes the white colour option has been scrapped ( which ties in with my recent exclusive about the redesign ) and Touch ID has been cancelled as it wo n't be included in the power button and the chances of its inclusion in-screen `` seems to be low . ''
The last of these will be of particular alarm to iPhone fans , especially since the alternative would be a first generation facial recognition technology called ` Face ID ' .
Something Apple needs to prove is as quick , convenient and secure as the much loved Touch ID - especially in testing conditions like low light , bright sunlight or when wearing sunglasses / contacts which defeat the Galaxy S8 .
Further pilling on the misery is the Royal Bank of Canada as analyst Amit Daryanani agrees with Mac Otakara saying : `` Based on incremental supply chain data points that suggest a more pronounced OLED iPhone delay ... we think the flagship device may not see initial shipments until October with volume shipments not occurring until the November/December timeframe . ''
This would lead to a potentially chaotic pre-Christmas rush and likely result in third party sales of the iPhone 8 going for thousands of dollars .
That said the iPhone 8 's jaw dropping price rise may dampen excitement among some users .
At this rate the iPhone 8 's most radical changes will need to be as sensational as they look on paper ...