Here are the six Dow stocks experts say have the most upside
Stocks on Wall Street have surged higher this year , with double-digit gains in the past 12 months for the Nasdaq , S&P 500 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average .
While analysts caution that many stocks may be overpriced , there are still some good investments out there and this year looks good for more upward movement in the larger markets .
The Dow has surged nearly 7 percent year-to-date , with a more than 18 percent gain in the past year .
Two experts we talked to suggested six of the Dow 30 component stocks as good choices for investing now , if someone wanted to eye the big stocks .
Among those are tech giants Apple Inc. and Intel Corp. , along with energy giant Chevron Corp. , industrial manufacturer Caterpillar Inc. , banking and finance titan JPMorgan Chase , as well as retailer Wal-Mart Stores Corp. .
Of those six stocks , Walmart , Apple and Caterpillar have already posted big gains this year so far .
Two of the others , Intel and JPMorgan , both have been up and down after initially posted gains in the spring before giving back some ground .
Chevron is the one of those stocks that has been steadily down this year , but with oil prices creeping back up of late it appears to have potential .
`` The biggest threats to the current bull market are geopolitical North Korea , political scandals , etc. and a failure to revise and reduce tax rates for U.S. businesses , '' said Rob Russell , president of Russell Total Wealth Management in Fairborn .
`` Barring these threats , the U.S. stock markets will likely take a breather during the summer and then climb higher throughout the remainder of the year , with a yearly return in the 9 percent to 13 percent range . ''
Russell said the broader market of the S&P 600 , which is comprised of small-cap U.S. based companies , likely has the most upside `` due to the heavy emphasis from D.C. on small businesses , tax friendly policies , and softer regulation . ''
But his Dow 30 picks would be Chevron , Caterpillar and Apple .
Russell added as a disclosure that he , his family , and his clients owned positions in CVX and AAPL at the time of this writing .
`` Undoubtedly , many stocks are already overbought and expensive , but even at these dangerously high levels it is possible for the market to continue to climb higher , '' Russell said .
`` Eventually , reality will be priced in and the market will experience a correction , which is why it 's prudent to begin diversifying your portfolio outside of common stocks and bonds by including Private Equity and Opportunistic Real Estate . ''
Matt Watson , portfolio manager for James Investment Research in Greene County , said that his firm is currently recommending a conservative allocation to stocks .
`` We have some concerns regarding expensive stock market valuations , '' Watson said .
`` Additionally , investor sentiment towards stocks has started to decline from higher levels reached earlier this year .
While these concerns do not mean that stocks have to decline , we view stocks as vulnerable to a decline due to the higher risk levels we perceive in the stock market today . ''
As for which Dow stocks he believes would be options for investors , Watson said `` Intel , Wal-Mart , and JP Morgan are a few of the Dow stocks that we currently own for some of our clients . ''
The broader market index of the S&P 500 is nearly 8 percent year-to-date and has gained more than 15 percent in the past year .
The tech-heavy Nasdaq has gained the most of the big three indices , with the Nasdaq posting a 15 percent gain year-to-date and is up more than 25 percent in the past year .
Russell added some insight about his three picks : 
- Chevron -- with a 4 % dividend and a recent earnings turnaround this could be a great value play .
In essence , you get paid to wait for oil prices to recover and plenty of upside in the stocks ' price .
- Caterpillar -- you ca n't repair America 's infrastructure without heavy construction equipment and that 's where CAT comes in .
Their other product lines of gas and diesel engines , mining equipment , and locomotives should benefit greatly by Federal , State , and Private industry infrastructure and construction spending in the coming years .
Although the stock price is fairly valued you get a nice 3 % dividend to be patient while orders for equipment begin to flood in .
- Apple -- the obvious choice of the 30 Dow stocks due to a big upcoming product launch and hoards of cash scheduled to be invested .
The move to their new 5 billion dollar headquarters will help to spur new and exciting product development and collaboration among their 12,000 employees .
Although Apple 's dividend is relatively low at 1.5 % currently , it 's likely to increase in the coming years .