Did Apple Just Make Best Buy a Better Buy ?
Best Buy was left for dead in the wake of the move to e-commerce , but it has defied its detractors and is now a go-to place for broken iPhone screens .
Things are looking up .
The ubiquitous nature of the Apple Inc. 's iPhone is well known , with more than a billion sold worldwide .
If you need to get your cracked screen repaired , however , your options become much more limited .
The best option is an Apple retail store , which will provide authorized repairs , but these come with increasingly long waits .
You can mail your phone to Apple , but that process can take days or even weeks .
You can also take your chances with a mom-and-pop shop , or the kiosk at the mall , but if the vendor damages the phone , it can void your warranty .
These options leave a lot to be desired .
A report by Reuters reveals that iPhone owners will soon have a new option to repair their damaged phone .
Apple will be deploying its renowned Horizon repair machine to 400 partner repair centers in 25 countries .
The machine was largely the thing of rumor and legend until recently , and Apple had not even acknowledged its existence until now .
One of the first partners to receive the machines will be big-box electronics store and longtime Apple partner Best Buy Co. , Inc. .
Best Buy has been leveraging its partnership with Apple .
BBY or BFF ?
Best Buy has long leveraged its connections to Apple to gain competitive advantage , and this move will add to its resume .
Two years ago , the company redesigned the majority of its locations with its store-within-a-store concept , highlighting Apple products and featuring Apple-approved displays .
It was also the first non-Apple retailer to offer the Apple Watch upon its release .
Best Buy 's position as an Apple Authorized Service Provider and a seller of Apple Care and Apple Care + gives consumers another venue for all things Apple -- and it also accepts Apple Pay .
Having the Horizon machine and adding screen repair to its repertoire will give consumers yet another reason to visit its stores .
For several years , Best Buy has battled the perception that it is n't long for this world .
Competition from online retailer Amazon.com , Inc. led to the demise of big-box electronics store Circuit City in 2009 , and hhgregg earlier this year .
The advent of e-commerce led to the phenomenon of showrooming , the practice of window-shopping and trying out products in a physical store before buying them for a lower price online .
Back from the dead
Best Buy fought back by reinventing itself in the face of adversity .
It matched Amazon 's and other competitors ' prices , offered same-day pickup at its stores for online orders , and invested heavily in its e-commerce capabilities .
Best Buy states that 70 % of the U.S. population lives within 15 minutes of one of its stores , and half of all online orders are now picked up or shipped from a store .
In its most recent quarter , Best Buy reported a better-than-expected 1.6 % revenue increase over the prior-year quarter , but the headline was the nearly 23 % increase in online sales year over year .
Eliminating a one-time settlement that occurred in the prior-year quarter , earnings per share grew 40 % .
Investors were pleased , and the stock jumped 21 % on the news to an all-time high .
The company has also moved to reduce its share count , announcing a new $ 5 billion share-repurchase authorization , with $ 3 billion expected to be completed over the next two years .
Best Buy is back from the dead .
Ulterior motives ?
Apple 's move may not be completely altruistic , as a number of states have been considering `` right to repair '' legislation .
Bills have been introduced in New York , Massachusetts , Tennessee , Illinois , Minnesota , Nebraska , Kansas , and Wyoming that would require Apple and others to publish repair manuals and sell diagnostic software , tools , and spare parts to consumers and independent repair shops , something it does n't do now .
Apple has opposed these efforts , arguing that it would expose proprietary technology and trade secrets , making it easier for hackers to access personal information .
Apple also asserts that this is the only way the company can control the quality of the repairs .
Opponents argue that by controlling the technology , Apple can charge much more for repairs than independent shops .
In any case , this recent move is a win-win for consumers and for Best Buy .
Best Buy a better buy ?
Things are certainly looking up for the electronics retailer .
It recently increased its guidance , expecting to grow revenue by 2.5 % for 2017 .
The move by Apple to include Best Buy in the distribution plan for its Horizon machines gives iPhone owners just one more reason to shop there .
Best Buy has pulled off what many thought impossible , and the reports of its death have been greatly exaggerated .
Its turnaround has been nothing short of spectacular , and it 's in a better position now than it has been in years .