Stocks Mixed ; This California Builder Breaks Out ; What To Watch For In Apple
The U.S. stock market launched the final two months of the year with mixed results as techs and the Nasdaq cooled off , while Apple ( AAPL ) halted a three-day win streak .
Meanwhile , cyclical and commodity issues pumped other major averages higher .
The Nasdaq composite slipped less than 0.2 % on the back of a 1.2 % drop in lighter volume in Apple , the largest company in the U.S. exchanges by market cap $ 861 billion .
But the Powershares QQQ Trust QQQ ETF , which tracks the Nasdaq 100 , edged just a few pennies lower .
The Dow Jones industrial average gained more than 0.2 % , while the S&P 500 rose nearly 0.2 % .
Volume increased on both exchanges , according to early figures .
Because the Nasdaq 's drop was small , it narrowly escaped a distribution day , which points to institutional selling .
Apple , set to report fiscal Q4 results after the close Thursday , is still in buy range after clearing its newest base : an eight week cup with handle that has a 160.97 buy point .
Apple 's fiscal year ended in September .
The iPhone giant had broken out Aug. 2 when it gapped up in price and rallied past a 156.75 entry .
But gains were limited , and during the market 's mild pullbacks in September , Apple soon dropped below that proper entry .
Watch to see if Apple can continue its streak of double-digit profit growth .
Q4 earnings are seen rising 12 % to $ 1.87 a share , following increases of 2 % , 11 % and 18 % in the prior three quarters .
Sales are expected to climb 8 % to $ 50.74 billion , which would mark the best year-over-year gain in eight quarters .
The building sector continued to strengthen .
William Lyon Homes WLH gapped up a second straight day , rising more than 4 % to 29.28 in heavy trade .
The builder of single-family homes has surged past a 25.28 buy point in a narrow flat base after reporting excellent third-quarter results EPS up 109 % to 71 cents , with sales up 43 % to $ 490.3 million , a quarterly record .
After-tax margin jumped 180 basis points to 5.6 % .
The right time to have bought the small-cap play was either Monday or Tuesday , when shares surpassed the left-side lip of the narrow six-week base .
That flat base could also be viewed as part of a much longer base .
Watch to see if William Lyon will pull back in lighter volume such that it may offer investors a second buy opportunity .
Those following IBD 's CAN SLIM investment system should not chase the stock more than 5 % past the 25.28 entry , or 26.54 .
Steel stocks outperformed , rising 2 % as a group .
U.S. Steel X rose nearly 8 % to 27.30 and almost retook its 200-day moving average after posting a much-better-than-expected 130 % leap in Q3 earnings to 92 cents a share .
Revenue rose 21 % to $ 3.25 billion .
Revenue has now grown an average 19.7 % vs. year-ago levels in the past three periods .
U.S. Steel , however , still needs more time to work on the right side of a new base that extends back to February .
Back then , the stock cleared a cup without handle at 39.24 , but got nowhere fast .
Wall Street remains concerned about cheap foreign imports and the ability of Congress to pass meaningful legislation that would spur infrastructure investment .
In economic news , the ISM manufacturing survey came in lower than the Econoday forecast for October but was still robust at 58.7 .
A figure above 50 points to expanding factory activity .
The Federal Reserve , in its penultimate meeting of the year , held off on making a new quarter-point hike in short-term interest rates as policymaking board members expressed ongoing concern that inflation is not hitting a 2 % target rate .
The Fed has raised the fed funds rate four times since December 2015 to a target range of 1 % -1.25 % .
But virtually all bond traders see the rate rising to a 1.25 % -1.5 % range next month .