iPhone X 's Dangerous Choice Of Market Share Or Profit
The decision by Apple to price the iPhone X at one thousand dollars says a lot about Tim Cook 's strategy for the iPhone going forwards .
Although the new iOS-powered handset has been pitched as the future of the smartphone , it 's a future that will see market share falling , even as Apple maintains its profit margin .
Thank to the teardown analysis by IHS Markit reported on by Reuters ' Stephen Nellis we know that the raw cost of the iPhone X is $ 357 .
Comparing that to the list price gives a gross profit margin of sixty-four percent .
Once you add in R&D costs , manufacturing , shipping , distribution , and other ancillary costs , the iPhone X should offer Apple the almost traditional forty percent margin on the final handset sale .
That 's a lot of margin to enjoy , and there 's an argument that Apple could have sold more units had the price been lower .
Putting aside stock issues , the iPhone X pricing suggests that Apple will continue to prize profit margins over unit sales and market share .
2017 has seen modest growth in the overall smartphone market - IHS Markit has reported seven percent year-on-year grow - but Apple 's growth has been lagging the growth of the market , with IHS reporting two percent growth in a similar period .
Tim Cook and his team are facing a similar decision to previous leading manufacturers such as Nokia , Blackberry , Palm , and others .
Get it wrong and the danger is Apple will slowly follow those companies into the technological history books .
The general trend on smartphone pricing has always experienced a downward pressure , and as the price drops more people buy into the system .
If the iPhone X had maintained the flagship price of previous years then unit sales and market share numbers could have risen this quarter and throughout 2018 .
Instead Apple has chosen to maintain its profit margin .
That will keep the accountants and shareholders happy , but with no significant year-on-year growth in iPhone sales expected , there 's every chance that 2017 and 2018 will see Apple lose market share to the competition .