Tech Stocks This Week : iPhone 8 Rumors , Samsung 's Note Returns , and More
Two major smartphones and the world 's most popular mobile operating system were in the spotlight this week .
Smartphone news dominated tech headlines this week .
Shortly after Alphabet 's Google announced its latest Android version , Samsung brought to life its Note lineup after recalling the Note 7 last year .
Meanwhile , the ever-active Apple rumor mill was fanned into flame .
Google introduces Android 8.0
Google kicked off the week on Monday with the introduction of Android 8.0 .
In a licensing deal with Mondelez , Android 8.0 was branded with Mondelez ' popular Oreo cookie .
Android Oreo is `` smarter , faster and more powerful than ever , '' Google said in a press release about the new OS .
Primary new features in Android Oreo include the ability to see two apps at once , lower power usage and subsequently longer-lasting batteries , and a faster boot speed .
Of course , there 's much more to the new OS than this , but the update does n't seem like it 's as big of a steep change as some previous releases .
Google 's Android dominates worldwide smartphone operating market share .
Of global smartphone shipments in the first quarter of 2017 , more than 83 % used versions of Android , according to data from IDC .
With a new , better version of Android , Google will attempt to bolster its leadership position in the key market .
Is this the iPhone 8 's Crown Jewel ?
iPhone 8 rumors stole the spotlight from Android on Tuesday , with Bloomberg 's Mark Gurman reporting some scoops on the launch of Apple 's upcoming smartphone .
Most notably , Gurman spoke highly of the device 's rumored 3D facial recognition .
`` Upgrades to core technologies aside , the new iPhone 's crown jewel will be a 3-D facial scanning sensor that will unlock device and authenticate purchases -- an industry first , '' Gurman said .
The iPhone 8 is also rumored to boast inductive charging , cameras that work better with augmented reality apps , an OLED screen , and an entirely new form factor with a virtual home button and slimmer bezels .
As the company 's 10th anniversary iPhone , Apple is rumored to be going all out on the device -- and investor expectations for the phone are high .
The iPhone is Apple 's bread and butter , accounting for 63 % of the company 's trailing-12-month revenue .
Investors may want to take a look at what Apple actually unveils when the device finally launches .
Apple typically announces its newest iPhones in the first half of September .
After its Note 7 crash and burned , Samsung unveils the Note 8 Samsung 's release of its Note 7 resulted in an ugly public relations nightmare last year when it was recalled after devices were catching fire .
Not only did the recall take a toll on Samsung 's earnings , but it put the company at a competitive disadvantage when Apple released the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus in the following weeks .
Indeed , the recall likely played a role in Apple picking up incremental market share .
With its new Note 8 , Samsung hopes to redeem itself .
Sporting a 6.3-inch edge-to-edge display , the Note 8 is the largest Note yet .
Beyond its larger screen size , the Note 8 boasts dual cameras , portrait mode , a top-notch processor , wireless charging , and water resistance .
It looks like a good comeback .
But the new device will likely be up against Apple 's latest and greatest next month .