Here 's how Apple gets to a $ 2 trillion market value
- Expect strongest growth from services and Asia
Apple is currently the world 's most-valuable company .
Apple 's market capitalization has topped $ 900 billion and seems on track to hit $ 1 trillion by year-end , with expectations for a strong holiday season .
Apple stock is preforming in line with my 2015 prediction , a forecast I repeated again this April , when such a number seemed outlandish .
So , what will it take for Apple shares to warrant a $ 2 trillion market cap ?
Listen to Apple CEO Tim Cook and you 'll hear a fair amount of Buck Rogers-sounding futurism : Artificial intelligence that allows for self-driving cars , augmented-reality technology which , demystified , is mostly a more realistic-looking gaming environment for now and more .
Or you can keep the case for $ 2 trillion simpler : Apple has an already world-class hardware business that sold $ 141.3 billion of iPhones in the year ending this September , while its services business is up to $ 30 billion a year , growing at 23 % .
`` We expect a lot to happen with two to three years , and it will mostly be in services , '' CFRA Research analyst Angelo Zino says . ''
The quickest way from $ 1 trillion to $ 2 trillion is to get a higher stock multiple on top of earnings growth .
The longer they grow services at 20 % or better , the better .
Apple will get a better multiple as services become a bigger part of its pie . ''
The biggest differences between the prosaic case and the Buck Rogers case lie in how long it might take Apple to double in value .
But here 's what to think about when you ask , can Apple really get to $ 2 trillion ?
First , watch services .
It 's the most boring part of the case , but the most predictable , Zino says .
Right now , services are just 13 % of Apple 's revenue , Zino says .
This could be a $ 60 billion business within four years , even with some slowing in growth .
Services could soon produce 20 % of Apple 's revenue and a third of its profit , Zino predicts .
Morgan Stanley 's Katy Huberty adds that services could even grow 30 % annually if people demand virtual-reality games and other AR-based services .
Services businesses also command higher multiples , as Zino points out .
If we assume a $ 60 billion services business with 33 % profit margins , services alone would generate as much as $ 20 billion in profit .
Apple made $ 64.1 billion before taxes in fiscal 2017 .
That could be worth an extra several-hundred billion right there .
Second , watch China and Asia .
It 's easy to get carried away by China 's potential , Zino cautions .
Apple 's sales to greater China dropped 17 % in fiscal 2016 and another 8 % in 2017 , thanks partly to the financial-market turmoil there .
Apple 's big issue in China is whether its consumers are rich enough to choose iPhones en masse .
Morgan Stanley 's Huberty argues that Apple 's China recovery , which began earlier this year , will be accelerated by a shift to more-expensive phones like the iPhone X .
She says Apple 's strength selling products in China suggests the real problem has been a lack of a compelling new iPhone .
`` The number of aged iPhones in China due for an upgrade grew 56 % this year , setting up for accelerating upgrades when a new iPhone form factor launches this fall , '' Huberty wrote in August .
`` What 's more , the switching opportunity from rival phone makers is ripe in China ... .
The combination of these factors drives our 66 % bottom-up China iPhone unit growth forecast in FY18 . ''
Boosting China unit sales by two-thirds would add $ 30 billion in revenue , even if it took longer than a year .
Apple trades at four times sales , so add about $ 120 billion to market cap for that alone .
Third , watch the tax bill .
With $ 252.3 billion in cash held outside of the U.S. , Apple stands to be the biggest beneficiary of Republican proposals to let companies repatriate offshore funds while paying only 10 % as U.S. taxes , well below today 's rate of 35 % .
The other thing to watch is the proposal to cut the corporate tax rate to 20 % on U.S. profits .
Apple pays just 25 % now , so a rate cut is n't likely to be a bonanza for Apple , but it would help .
Fourth , watch the car revolution , but do n't count on it .
No one knows what Apple will do about cars , Zino says -- but it could be huge .
No surprise why : Loup Ventures , co-founded by longtime Apple analyst Gene Munster , says the car market will see more change in the next 20 years than in the last 50 .
Nearly all new cars and light trucks will be electric-powered and mostly or completely self-driving by 2040 , Loup predicts .
Apple probably wo n't make cars , but Zino and Morgan Stanley 's Huberty both see Apple trying to become a major player in the software and services that make autonomous vehicles and driverless-car services practical .
Will Apple 's ideas outshine Alphabet 's or Uber 's ?
No one knows .
Also , Loup 's forecast suggests the shift toward autonomous cars will be fairly backloaded , hitting critical mass in the 2030s -- likely too late to drive the climb toward Apple 's $ 2 trillion valuation .
The best play is to hold Apple shares if you like the iPhone business , and be patient with the rest .
That services will grow steadily is close to a lock .
If a tax bill passes , it will help some .
With Bank of America Merrill Lynch saying Asian emerging markets face several years of growth before another recession , that rebound in Asia is another decent bet .
Those positives outweigh the fact that the futuristic Buck Rogers stuff may take a while .
If AR and AI do become huge , they 'll push Apple toward $ 3 trillion or more -- even if that now sounds like to infinity and beyond .