AbbVie Demonstrates Leadership in Gastroenterology and Hepatology with New Data and Late-Breaking Studies to be Presented at Digestive Disease Week
AbbVie ( ABBV ) , a global biopharmaceutical company , today announced that data from 20 abstracts in gastroenterology and hepatology programs will be presented at Digestive Disease Week ® DDW 2017 , May 6 -- 9 , in Chicago .
`` AbbVie 's research presented at DDW this year represents our commitment to developing innovative new approaches , both through continued HUMIRA research and exploring three promising investigational agents across gastroenterology and hepatology , '' said Shao-Lee Lin , M.D. , Ph.D. , Vice President , Therapeutic Areas and International Development , AbbVie .
`` Building on our deep knowledge and expertise in these areas , we are proud to strive for improved patient outcomes . ''
AbbVie will present late-breaking studies on two investigational treatments for moderately to severely active Crohn 's disease during the Clinical Science : Late-Breaking Abstract Plenary Session on Tuesday , May 9 .
The late-breaking research includes a Phase 2 study that evaluates the safety and efficacy of multiple dosing regimens of upadacitinib as induction therapy in patients with moderately to severely active Crohn 's disease after 16 weeks of treatment .
The majority of these patients had failed two or more biologics .
Upadacitinib is an investigational oral JAK1-selective inhibitor , which targets an inflammatory pathway that plays an important role in Crohn 's disease and several other chronic immune-mediated conditions .
AbbVie will also present a Phase 2 , open-label maintenance therapy study that evaluates clinical and endoscopic remission , and clinical and endoscopic response of risankizumab at one year in patients with moderately to severely active Crohn 's disease .
Risankizumab selectively blocks interleukin-23 IL-23 , a key signaling agent that has been linked to a number of chronic immune-mediated diseases .
Risankizumab is an investigational treatment that is part of a collaboration between Boehringer Ingelheim and AbbVie , with AbbVie leading future development and commercialization of risankizumab globally .
Additionally , AbbVie will present new HUMIRA analyses , including an evaluation of patients with ulcerative colitis treated in a clinical practice setting , an evaluation of the long-term safety of HUMIRA in patients with moderately to severely active Crohn 's disease , and an evaluation of the efficacy of HUMIRA in anti-tumor necrosis factor-naïve pediatric patients with Crohn 's disease .
HUMIRA is one of the most comprehensively studied biologics available for immune-mediated diseases and is supported by more than 14 years of clinical trial experience in inflammatory bowel disease Crohn 's disease and ulcerative colitis .
Data from AbbVie 's hepatitis C virus HCV clinical development program will be presented in six presentations throughout the meeting .
These studies provide primary and integrated analysis of treatment with its investigational , once-daily , ribavirin-free , pan-genotypic regimen of glecaprevir/pibrentasvir G/P in patients across all major genotypes GT1-6 .
The results investigate the potential of G/P in patients with specific treatment challenges and explore a virologic cure * in as little as 8 weeks of treatment for HCV patients without cirrhosis and those new to treatment , who make up the majority of HCV patients .
The new drug application NDA for G/P has been accepted by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) with priority review designation and is currently under review .
G/P is an investigational regimen and its safety and efficacy has not been established .
About AbbVie 's HCV Clinical Development Program
AbbVie 's glecaprevir/pibrentasvir G/P clinical development program was designed to investigate a faster path to virologic cure * for all major HCV genotypes GT1-6 and with the goal of addressing treatment areas of continued unmet need .
G/P is an investigational , pan-genotypic regimen being evaluated as a potential cure in 8 weeks for HCV patients without cirrhosis and who are new to treatment with direct-acting antivirals DAA ** , who make up the majority of HCV patients .
AbbVie is also studying G/P in patients with specific treatment challenges , such as genotype 3 , patients who were not cured with previous DAA treatment and those with CKD , including patients on dialysis .
G/P is a once-daily regimen that combines two distinct antiviral agents .
G/P is a fixed-dose combination of glecaprevir 300 mg , an NS3/4A protease inhibitor , and pibrentasvir 120 mg , an NS5A inhibitor , dosed once-daily as three oral tablets .
Glecaprevir GLE was discovered during the ongoing collaboration between AbbVie and Enanta Pharmaceuticals ENTA for HCV protease inhibitors and regimens that include protease inhibitors .