AbbVie Ordered by Jury to Pay $ 15 Million to Depakote Victim
- Boy claimed company failed to warn of spina bifida risk
- AbbVie says potential Depakote effects were properly disclosed
AbbVie Inc. must pay $ 15 million to compensate a California boy with a split spine for failing to properly warn his mother and her doctors that its Depakote drug could cause birth defects .
Jurors in federal court in Illinois delivered the verdict for Stevie Gonzalez on Friday in their third day of deliberations .
The 10-year-old boy 's mother took Depakote for bipolar depression during pregnancy and he was born with spina bifida .
He 's undergone 12 surgeries and is confined to a wheelchair .
His suit is one of about 700 pending in U.S. courts against the drugmaker over Depakote .
The panel awarded the money to cover Gonzalez 's medical bills and future care .
It rejected the family 's request for punitive damages over AbbVie 's mishandling of the drug .
It 's the North Chicago , Illinois-based drugmaker 's second Depakote loss .
A St. Louis , Missouri jury awarded $ 38 million to a girl with spina bifida in 2015 , including $ 23 million in punitive damages .
Another case settled in June 2016 during jury deliberations .
The next trial is set for state court in St. Louis on July 24 , followed by another in federal court in Illinois in September .
AbbVie , which spun off from Abbott Laboratories in 2013 , retained liability for the Depakote suits .
Abbott officials knew Depakote was `` one of the most toxic drugs to a human baby , '' and downplayed the birth-defect risks , John Boundas , the boy 's lawyer , told jurors in the East St. Louis , Illinois , trial .
AbbVie has won three trials in federal courts , where juries found Depakote 's label enables doctors to make properly informed decisions about the drug 's demonstrated benefits and clearly disclosed the risk of birth defects , Adelle Infante , a company spokeswoman , said in an emailed statement .
She declined to say whether AbbVie would appeal the East St. Louis verdict .
Company Disclosures
The company 's lawyers unsuccessfully sought to convince the Illinois jurors that Abbott properly disclosed the risk of spina bifida and other birth defects in Depakote 's warning label and Gonzalez 's mother was aware of those risks when she chose to use the drug to battle her mental illness .
Studies linking Depakote to birth defects prompted federal regulators in 2006 to require Abbott to put a strong pregnancy-use warning on the drug 's safety label .
The next year , Abbott and other makers of anti-seizure drugs also were forced to beef up warnings about their products ' suicide risks .