Which Big Pharma Is the Best Dividend Stock ?
This dividend-paying pharma stock is in a class by itself .
Dividend-paying pharma stocks tend to be great long-term investing vehicles because of their stellar free cash flows , strong growth prospects , and ability to weather most markets .
Even so , there are literally dozens of names to choose from when it comes to this particular group -- making it especially hard to separate the wheat from the chaff , so to speak .
Complicating matters further , the stocks with the highest yields , like GlaxoSmithKline , and even companies with the best recent track records from a payout perspective , such as the dividend aristocrat AbbVie , can be deceptively attractive .
Glaxo , for instance , offers a yield of almost 5 % , but is staring down some hard choices from a capital allocation standpoint that might spark a sizable reduction in its payout going forward .
AbbVie , on the other hand , has grown its dividend faster than all of its major drug manufacturing peers over the past four years , and sports a juicy yield of 3.88 % .
But the company is overly reliant on its anti-inflammatory drug Humira for growth , which is a major red flag with several companies attempting to bring a copycat version to market soon .
Cutting to the chase , Johnson & Johnson is , in my opinion , the valedictorian of the dividend-paying pharma stock class .
And it 's not even all that close of a race .
Here 's why .
Johnson & Johnson is an elite dividend stock
When it comes to the strength of its balance sheet , J&J is in a class by itself among major drug manufacturers .
Despite its $ 30 billion acquisition of Actelion earlier this year , for instance , the company was able to maintain its coveted triple-A credit rating with both Moody 's and Standard & Poor 's .
In fact , J&J is now the only U.S.-based pharma company to sport a triple-A rating .
The core issue is that J&J has shied away from credit-risky deals to drive growth over the course of its history , which simply ca n't be said for most of its peers .
AbbVie , for example , has repeatedly relied on debt-financing to augment its clinical pipeline and product portfolio , causing its debt to equity ratio to balloon to jaw-dropping levels over the last few years .
The point is that J&J has an exceptionally strong ability to meet its financial obligations moving forward , implying that its dividend program is about as safe as they come in the pharma space .
On the growth front , J&J is dealing with the introduction of biosimilar competitors to its top selling anti-inflammatory drug Remicade , and its prostate cancer drug Zytiga is starting to experience a pronounced slowdown in the United States .
However , the drugmaker 's significant investment in research and development has also allowed it to continually refresh its product portfolio .
The fairly new cancer drugs Darzalex and Imbruvica , for example , are both gobbling up significant share of their respective markets , helping to offset the weakness stemming from Remicade and Zytiga .
The net result is that J&J 's top line is forecast to grow by over 5 % over the next two years , due , in large part , to its ability to bring major new drugs to market in an almost machine-like fashion .
Last but not least , J&J belongs to a select group of stocks known as `` dividend aristocrats '' , reflecting the company 's 54-consecutive year history of increases to its payout .
In 2016 , the company doled out a massive $ 8.6 billion in dividends to its shareholders , as well as another $ 7.3 billion in share repurchases .
Put simply , J&J has an elite shareholders reward program in place , and its track record of paying dividends is among the best within its peer group , to put it mildly .