The 2 Best Dividend Stocks in Marijuana
Looking for marijuana stocks , but you want dividends , too ?
Check out AbbVie and Scotts Miracle-Gro .
Marijuana stocks that pay dividends ?
That might seem like an oxymoron .
For one thing , profitability is usually a prerequisite for paying out dividends , and there are n't too many profitable marijuana stocks out there .
If you 're really wanting to find marijuana stocks that pay a dividend , though , there are two that stand out -- AbbVie and The Scotts Miracle-Gro Company .
Admittedly , there 's a bit of a stretch required to truly call these marijuana stocks , but both do have solid marijuana connections .
Here 's why AbbVie and Scotts Miracle-Gro are the best and perhaps only dividend stocks in marijuana .
An early marijuana drug and a sky-high dividend yield
AbbVie markets Marinol for managing the loss of appetite associated with AIDS treatment and for nausea and vomiting associated with cancer chemotherapy .
Marinol holds the distinction as the first cannabinoid approved in the U.S. , with the Food and Drug Administration FDA granting approval of the drug back in 1985 .
Marinol 's active ingredient is dronabinol , a synthetic delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol THC , which is the psychoactive component of marijuana .
The drug was first made by Unimed .
Solvay Pharmaceuticals acquired Unimed in 1999 , and Abbott Laboratories purchased Solvay Pharmaceuticals in 2010 .
Three years later , Abbott spun off AbbVie as a separate entity , with the new company taking Marinol with it .
Does Marinol generate a lot of money for AbbVie ?
Um , no .
In fact , the company does n't even mention the drug in its financial reports .
Still , AbbVie continues to market Marinol , which qualifies it as a marijuana stock at least in the broadest sense of the term .
More importantly for our discussion , the company pays out a tremendous dividend .
AbbVie 's dividend yield currently stands at 3.9 % .
AbbVie also ranks as one of the stocks with the fastest-growing dividends on the market .
The company appears to be in a good position to keep the dividend checks flowing , with growing earnings and a strong cash flow .
The go-to source for marijuana growers
Scotts Miracle-Gro does n't sell any products that contain marijuana .
But the company is intertwined with the marijuana-growing industry .
Scotts Miracle-Gro has become the go-to source for marijuana cultivators for supplies , including fertilizers , lighting , and hydroponic products .
Over the past few years , Scotts Miracle-Gro has completed several acquisitions that bolstered its position as a primary supplier for marijuana growers .
In 2015 , the company acquired the assets of General Hydroponics and Vermicrop , both of which are leading producers of liquid plant food products and accessories for hydroponic gardening .
Last year , Scotts bought Gravita , a Netherlands-based maker of indoor lighting used in the greenhouse and hydroponic markets .
The company also purchased American Agritech , a producer of plant nutrients , plant supplements , and growing systems used for hydroponic gardening .
Scotts Miracle-Gro does n't provide details on how much of its revenue stems from sales to marijuana growers .
However , it 's clearly an important market to the company .
CEO James Hagedorn has stated that the company intends to be a major supplier for both recreational and professional marijuana growers .
Dividend-seeking investors have something to like with Scotts Miracle-Gro .
The dividend currently yields 2.26 % .
Scotts has increased its dividend payments for seven consecutive years .
With a payout ratio of 58 % and growing earnings , the company appears to have plenty of room for future dividend hikes .
More possibilities in the future ?
Could there be more dividend stocks for investors to choose from down the road ?
It 's possible .
However , I would n't count on any surge in alternatives anytime soon .
As mentioned earlier , most marijuana stocks are n't profitable yet .
Even some of the ones that are profitable right now are n't yet able to sustain those profits .
Although expected growth in the marijuana industry could change that relatively soon , there 's still no guarantee that companies will choose to return profits to investors in the form of dividends .
My hunch is that it will be years before there are plenty of marijuana stocks offering dividends .
For now , AbbVie and Scotts Miracle-Gro appear to be the only choices .
At least they 're good ones .