How Well Has AMD Delivered On Their 2015 Financial Analyst Day Promises ?
They say time flies when you are having fun and 2017 has certainly been a lot more enjoyable for Advanced Micro Devices since 2015 .
Unlike financial analysts who cover Wall Street , I 'm less concerned with the day to day and week to week stock price fluctuations and balance sheet as I am with extended trajectories on products , share and revenue .
So with AMD , I look at the promises they have made on product , markets , and revenue and then stand back and measure them on those .
I will be attending AMD 's 2017 Financial Analyst Day and I thought it would be worthwhile to look back at 2015 and see if they did what they said they would did .
In May of 2015 , just after 7 months after becoming CEO , Lisa Su outlined the corporate strategy for the next few years .
It was a tough 2014 for AMD with only a few stars , game consoles , thin clients and casino gaming .
PCs became strategic again in 2015 ... .
If you recall , PC 's went out of vogue at Advanced Micro Devices under Rory Read 's CEO tenure with a focus on embedded and semi-custom .
So it was with some surprise to many that Lisa discussed stabilizing the PC business .
It 's easy to say want to compete in places where Intel is n't , but when that market delivers 65 % gross margin , huge and only two players , it may actually be a good place .
Since 2015 AMD has significantly improved the state of their PC business , including four straight quarters of double-digit year-over-year growth .
That 's really good , right ?
AMD also landed some big commercial wins 2015 and 2016 with HP Inc. , Lenovo and even Dell .
Also then , while it was hard to imagine AMD with a chart-topping CPU , the company prepared for the launch of Ryzen .
Two years ago no one , and I mean no one , thought AMD get back to even a glimmer of the glory days .
Well they have .
Financially , C&G revenue grew from $ 532 million in Q1 2015 to $ 593 million in Q1 2017 , which only includes one month of sales of Ryzen .
I had expected more higher-end share out of RTG , but they did gain unit share share with Polaris .
RTG is close rolling the newer high-end GPU products targeting the PC gaming and professional design based on a brand-new architecture called `` Vega . ''
Architecture shifts are the time for disruption in GPUs and CPUs and the market is hopeful RTG has a winner .
...... while still prioritizing enterprise, embedded, semi-custom
In 2015 , AMD said they were prioritizing investment in the enterprise , embedded and semi-custom business .
So what did they do ?
At near-0 % server market share , AMD invested heavily in returning to the datacenter with the upcoming Zen-based `` Naples '' high-performance CPU for server .
The company is still saying they are on track for our first Naples products to launch this quarter .
I hope to hear some more details at the event tomorrow as AMD shared a ton of details .
To be blunt , the semi-custom business kept the company in business , a good move by Rory Read , and since 2015 , AMD has added two additional wins for our semi-custom business -- the PlayStation Pro and Xbox `` Project Scorpio '' .
Game consoles is a shining star for AMD and they are the # 1 provider of graphics technology in the space .
I had wanted to see some major semi-custom wins in non-console markets but they did n't realize .
Improved financials
In 2015 , AMD was selling real estate , leasing it back , laying off employees and sub-leasing space they could n't take up .
I was concerned for AMD .
In addition to the wins outlined above , AMD in 2015 developed a plan to improve its cash and liquidity position .
Comparing the most recent quarter to that of two years ago , AMD has increased their cash position , while significantly cutting debt from $ 2.27 billion to $ 1.4 billion today .
If you want to get technical , 2016 was the first time I can remember AMD had positive free cash flow .
2015 communicated growth plan
At AMD 's 2015 Financial Analyst Day , AMD said they would " lay the foundation for growth and profitability . "
They talked about Zen , Vega , getting back into the highest performance spaces , and the datacenter .
any way you slice it , AMD potential growth potential and they are in a much better position – from all aspects – compared to two years ago .
With the “ Zen ” processor core they have already demonstrated a return to the higher performance markets they had escaped years prior .
If AMD can do it with “ Vega ” graphics architecture , it 'll be a one-two punch playing above the $ 199 price point .
AMD 's RTG is already seeing interest datacenter GPU capabilities with Google Cloud and Alibaba but I 'd like to see more details around the actual compute workloads and scale being attained before I get too excited .
2017 To-Do 's
For the rest of the year , AMD 's communicated focus consistently remains on launching the Naples server CPU with broad customer , partner , and ecosystem support .
The server market moves much more slowly than the PC or GPU markets , so I do n't think we 'll see material financial impact until 2018 .
AMD 's RTG gained lower-end and mid-range unit share with Polaris which is good and now it 's time to move up the stack with Vega .
RTG if you remember , announced their GPU cards for machine learning earlier this year and the company is saying they are on-track for a mid-year Instinct launch .
Ryzen desktop has been a smashing success, even though the investors somehow thought AMD recognized revenue on sale-in ( 3 months ) versus sales-out ( 1 month ) which prompted a stock sell-off after last earnings .
Moving forward the Zen core will be going into the mainstream desktop and premium notebook markets with Ryzen 3 CPUs and Ryzen mobile APUs in the second half of the year .
So what ?
If I look back on what AMD said they were going to do at the 2015 Financial Analyst Day and compare it with what they 've done since then , the company has hit nearly everything.
AMD does n't appear to be delivering a " high-performance server APU " ( read : integrated graphics ) and ARM servers appear on the far , back burner .
AMD followed through on the most important stuff they needed to do , and are in a much better position as a result of that commitment .
AMD has done a good job in identifying and then tackling the most important , and arguably fundamental , needs of the business .
Wow what a difference a few years makes .
Never under-estimate the value of good leadership , execution and an understanding of how to grow the business .