Nvidia and AMD must brace for competition from a super-powerful artificial-intelligence processor
A heavyweight rival , Fujitsu , is about to enter the market with a breakthrough
The future is super-processors for artificial intelligence .
It is increasingly looking like the future belongs to artificial intelligence .
Two of the hottest stocks in that industry are Nvidia and Advanced Micro Devices
The strength of those stocks is largely attributable to the excitement around the artificial-intelligence capabilities of their processors .
A key to success in hot technology companies is to keep an eye on newly developing competition .
Prudent investors tend to sell into strength when new competition emerges .
The momo momentum crowd is often left holding the bag .
Increased competition may be coming to Nvidia and AMD in the form of a new artificial-intelligence processor that 's 10 times more powerful than their current offerings .
Let 's take a look at this .
First , a chart .
It 's a 30-minute chart of Nvidia covering the period during which the `` smart money '' has been taking the news of potential new competition into its analysis .
Please note from the chart that the VUD indicator has been consistently orange .
The VUD indicator is the most sensitive measure of supply and demand in real time .
Orange indicates a higher supply than demand .
The VUD indicator staying mostly orange when the price does not move much or goes higher is often an early indicator of the strength of sellers in a stock .
New competitor is a heavyweight
The new competitor is Fujitsu of Japan .
Fujitsu was founded in 1935 and employees 159,000 people in more than 100 countries .
Fujitsu produces some of the most advanced processors for super computers .
Fujitsu also produces processors for SPARC servers .
SPARC servers have been popular and are now owned by Oracle after the company bought Sun Microsystems .
The new processor from Fujitsu will consist of 16 deep-learning processing elements , each of which will contain eight execution units .
Fujitsu is targeting 10 times the performance of Nvidia and AMD processors .
The new processor will be available in 2018 .
Previously , another heavyweight , Intel announced it would introduce competing processors for artificial-intelligence applications .
The software hurdle
As an engineer , I am reasonably confident that competitors are likely to come up with better hardware than Nvidia and AMD .
However , the new competitors may have a difficult time catching Nvidia in software and development tools .
Investment implications
The momo crowd is still aggressively buying those stocks , but the smart money is inactive .
Prudent investors ought to pay attention to actions of the smart money .
Yes , there are potential rewards in Nvidia and AMD , but the risks are high .
It is fine to trade them for the short term when good setups appear , but caution is warranted if investing for the long term .
Based on my 30 years-plus in the markets , my firm conclusion is that most investors are better off by focusing on risk-adjusted returns .
I have repeatedly seen traders who ignore risk making lots of money and then losing it all .