Reviews Confirm With Radeon RX Vega , AMD Re-enters The Performance Desktop GPU Space
Many industry watchers including myself have been paying very close attention to AMD 's latest CPU and GPU products .
AMD was expected to give the competition a run for their money with Ryzen and Ryzen ThreadRipper desktop processors , and those expectations have been met in desktop CPUs .
Now we must wait and see in December how Ryzen will do in mobile APUs .
Vega-based graphics cards were also expected to bring more competition to the performance desktop GPU market .
AMD Radeon-based Polaris GPUs targeted the mainstream and entry-level market , priced $ 249 and below , and gave AMD 's RTG group a nice boost in unit market share , but the real margin dollars are in the high-end GPUs .
Therefore , Vega is important as it could help AMD increase revenues and margin dollars .
Earlier this year , AMD launched a very limited edition , low-volume high-price Vega-based , Radeon Instinct card for machine learning and just meeting their 1H 2017 launch promise .
So here we are in Q3 with new Radeon RX Vega 64 and RX Vega 56 GPUs each number indicates the amount of ROPs inside the GPU , and today we are starting to see a vast array of performance numbers from reviewers .
I did not get my Vega cards in time to do a complete review but will do that later .
However , before I dig too deeply into these performance numbers , let 's talk about market expectations and AMD 's promises for Vega .
Officially , AMD did not make many specific promises about Vega until the launch itself , but they did suggest that Vega would be `` very fast . ''
The reality is that when a company like AMD is expected to launch a new high-end GPU to compete at higher price points , they are going to be competitive with NVIDIA .
That means that the expectation is that AMD will either be competitive with NVIDIA on performance or they will be competitive with them on price , or typically , both .
That means that the market 's expectations were that AMD would compete with NVIDIA 's fastest card , the GTX 1080 , and maybe even its newer brother the GTX 1080 Ti which was announced in March this year .
At the company 's Financial Analyst Day , AMD showed some superb Instinct performance numbers , but backed off any absolute performance claims of the overall family and rather talked about overall improvements over previous generations .
I thought this was a great move as all AMD had to do to gain credibility and profitability were to move up the price curve .
At the consumer launch , there was very little head to head comparison and overall , and AMD seemed to focus more on the performance of Vega 56 over its more powerful brother Vega 64 .
AMD specifically stated that Radeon RX Vega is `` the world 's most powerful sub - $ 400 GPU . ''
This is likely because when you look at the reviews that have gone live today , Vega 64 is more power hungry and more expensive than Vega 56 and reaches parity with NVIDIA 's GTX 1080 , trading some blows .
As they should , countless reviews from PC Gamer , PCWorld , Anandtech , PC Perspective , Tom 's Hardware , and Hot Hardware have given AMD praise for the price and performance of the Vega 56 at $ 399 and how it 's very competitive in performance with NVIDIA 's popular GTX 1070 , especially with the card 's current inflated prices due to crypto currency mining .
Reviewers also mention that the RX Vega 64 does trade blows with the GTX 1080 which carries the same MSRP , but it does so at much higher power and not consistently .
AMD is also releasing a series of bundles to help new system builders save money and enable more gamers when they pair their RX Vega GPUs with Ryzen CPUs .
These bundles also include free games and monitor discounts , but one of their biggest purposes is to help mitigate the flow of miners buying GPUs and keeping them away from AMD 's loyal gamers .
While it remains to be seen how popular these bundles may be , they could drive some additional sales towards RX Vega 56 from customers who were already interested in building a Ryzen system .
Thankfully for AMD , a lot of the positive reviews for Radeon RX Vega 56 should still translate to many sales for the company as $ 399 cards still sell in much higher volumes than $ 499 and up .
If I can summarize AMD 's Radeon RX Vega launch from a few reviewer pull-quotes : `` In short , the Vega launch has the potential to be AMD 's brightest day , '' from Ryan Smith & Nate Oh at AnandTech .
`` The Red Team is fielding high-end graphics cards capable of challenging Nvidia 's enthusiast-class hardware , '' from Brad Chacos at PC World .
`` For their respective price points currently , AMD Radeon RX Vega 64 and Radeon RX Vega 56 are compelling , powerful , enthusiast gaming GPUs , '' from Dave Altavilla and Marco Chiappetta at Hot Hardware .
NVIDIA has a few hands they can play here , but given the stock-out issues driven by the recent Bitcoin mining frenzy , I do n't expect the company to pull the price lever .
I think in the short run , both AMD and NVIDIA can sell as many cards as they can make .
NVIDIA 's big move comes when they introduce 12nm , Volta-based GeForce consumer cards .
This will likely happen early 2018 so AMD and NVIDIA for the first time in a while will both participate in the $ 399 and $ 499 price points .
All in all , it was a good day for AMD Radeon as they showed with Vega , in consumer desktop graphics , they can move beyond the $ 249 price point to $ 399 and $ 499 .