AMD Radeon Vega Gets Company Back Into High-Value GPU Markets And Does It With A Single Chip
Advanced Micro Devices has been on a roll as of late , and I believe many are starting to notice .
In the last three months , AMD 's Ryzen desktop led to a 51 % CCG revenue increase , Epyc server chips were announced with broad ecosystem support , and Radeon 400/500 graphics are gaining unit share in the mid and entry level space .
Ryzen is following up soon with its highest-end enthusiast part , Threadrippper , followed by the ASP-rich Ryzen notebook parts in December .
AMD is executing well .
So when do AMD graphics make their big moves into the premium space like Ryzen and Epyc ?
Well , today , as AMD 's Radeon Technology Group ( RTG ) officially announced availability for all Vega-based GPUs for premium gaming and workstations and deep learning - and they are doing it with one piece of silicon , not a small feat .
I wanted to drill into today 's announcement and the implications for the market and AMD .
AMD before Vega
To see where AMD 's Radeon Technology Group , RTG , is going , it is important to know where they are today .
AMD 's RX 400/500 line , based on Polaris , is solidly in the mid-range and low-end market priced from $ 99 to $ 249 .
Bitcoin mining is pushing prices well-beyond MSRP in some models upwards of 80 % , but AMD is not capturing that increase .
At AMD 's latest financial analyst day , AMD reported that with Polaris , AMD gained 8 % points of desktop market share and increased desktop share 10 % points above $ 299 .
AMD 's RTG did this by focusing on the basics by increasing focused resources to deliver more competitive hardware and higher quality software .
The story for AMD 's professional products for workstations was very similar to that of the gaming product in that they played at the low end and mid-range , but not the premium space .
There have been many debates on where the `` premium graphics '' market starts and ends , but it does not matter for AMD 's Polaris , it did not play there at all .
Recommended by Forbes
At AMD 's FAD financial analyst day , RTG lead Raja Koduri was very clear that with Vega , he wanted AMD to compete in that premium space as that is where AMD believes 70 % of the margin dollars are .
That space has three distinct markets , premium gaming , workstation and machine learning .
Koduri was very clear to position that this round his intent was not to dominate the premium space , but rather compete there as RTG had not been there in a while .
I liked this more conservative approach as I wrote here , as it gives you a chance to under-commit and over-deliver , just what RTG needs .