Why Amazon.com , Inc. Stock Is Up 35 % This Year
A pair of strong earnings reports and a blockbuster acquisition have guided the tech giant 's stock higher this year .
What happened Amazon.com stock has surged 35 % this year , according to data from S&P Global Market Intelligence , as the e-commerce giant has ridden a broader wave in tech stocks and continued to put up strong growth numbers .
The stock has climbed steadily over the course of the year , topping $ 1,000 for the first time ever .
So what
There was no singular news item driving Amazon shares higher , but the company continues to execute , growing sales and market share across a wide range of industries .
Investors keep pushing the stock higher , as Amazon has built up a network of competitive advantages that is virtually unparalleled in the modern world .
In its fourth-quarter report out in February , the company posted sales growth of 22 % to $ 43.7 million and earnings per share of $ 1.54 , up from $ 1 the year before .
Sales in the key cloud-computing division , Amazon Web Services , jumped 55 % to $ 12.2 billion .
Shares fell modestly on the report , as revenue and guidance were below estimates , but the stock recovered those losses soon after .
A bullish tailwind in tech stocks has pushed the Nasdaq up more than 17 % , with fellow tech giants Alphabet , Apple , Facebook , and Netflix , or the so-called FAANG group of stocks , all gaining more than 20 % .
In April , Amazon posted strong first-quarter results , with revenue up 23 % to $ 35.7 billion , and earnings per share increasing from $ 1.07 to $ 1.48 .
Both numbers beat analyst estimates , and the stock rose on the report .
The stock topped $ 1,000 for the first time in May , and Amazon then stunned the business world in June with its $ 13.7 billion acquisition of Whole Foods Market .
That move , by far the company 's biggest acquisition in its history , pushed the stock a nearly 3 % , indicating a ringing endorsement from its investors .
Now what
Amazon has long aspired to be the `` Everything Store , '' and the Whole Foods acquisition brings the company significantly closer to that goal .
For years , it 's angled to break into groceries , but it has struggled to do so without a brick-and-mortar presence .
The stock 's valuation remains stretched at a P/E ratio of 190 , but the market has long given Amazon a pass on traditional valuation metrics as long as it continues to put up strong top-line growth .
While the stock is still vulnerable to a sell-off , its competitive position continues to grow stronger , meaning it should continue to outperform the market .