Is Amazon getting into the pharmacy business ? This is what you need to know
Drugstore chains and pharmacy-benefit managers are likely at risk , Wall Street analysts say
Amazon.com : books , music , movies , apparel , food -- and prescription medicine ?
A report earlier this year that the massive online retailer was mulling a pharmaceutical-industry entry has had observers all aflutter .
Amazon 's nearly $ 14 billion acquisition of Whole Foods , announced in June and closed just over two months later , sparked speculation that the grocery chain might soon house pharmacy locations .
Though Amazon itself has not confirmed a potential expansion into pharmaceuticals , the possibility has sent stocks of pharmaceutical middlemen south on more than one occasion .
`` Amazon has shown that they have mastery of the technology and innovative approaches to really transform how the marketplace delivers product , '' said Linda Pissott Reig , who co-chairs the FDA section of the Pittsburgh-based law firm Buchanan , Ingersoll & Rooney PC .
The move could also have wider implications for consumers .
Amazon could use de-identified big data to then see if , for example , `` a patient with depression is also seeking out self-help books , or particular products , '' she said .
`` Amazon , with a giant marketplace , has a lot of ability to collect information . ''
Why the prospect of Amazon 's entry to this new market is important : After transforming such industries as publishing , consumer electronics and cloud services -- and decimating key players along the way -- Amazon has built a reputation for dominance .
But part of the wide interest in an Amazon pharmacy is that the highly regulated drug business has never been particularly transparent .
At best , U.S. drug pricing is complex ; at worst , it 's dysfunctional .
Those who are skeptical of Amazon 's potential pharmacy entry have noted Amazon 's difficulty breaking into highly regulated markets , including alcohol distribution in the U.S. Industry leaders have brought up similar points .
For one , CVS Health Corp. Chief Executive Larry Merlo told Wall Street analysts in August that his industry was `` highly regulated , so the barriers to entry are high . ''
CNBC , which first reported on Amazon 's pharmacy plans in May , reported Friday that Amazon would make a decision before Thanksgiving .
Given that time table , expect the question to crop up again this earnings season .
What companies could be affected : Though Amazon 's involvement could presumably affect any and all parts of the pharmaceutical supply chain , including drug makers , it 's most threatening to retail pharmacy chains like Walgreens Boots Alliance and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. according to Leerink Partners analyst Ana Gupte .
That 's because Amazon is expected to begin getting cash-pay and mail-order customers , eventually moving into the pharmacy-benefits manager and retail pharmacy business , Gupte said .
CVS , though , might be able to leverage its pharmacy-benefit manager unit to reduce its risk , said Leerink Partners analyst David Larsen .
Anticipated competition from Amazon could also prompt pharmacies to diversify their offerings , Morgan Stanley analyst Ricky Goldwasser said this summer , including offering lab services like blood tests .
Middlemen called pharmacy-benefit managers ( PBMs ) , which work with drug makers to negotiate prices on behalf of health insurers and employers , are another player expected to be affected .
They are not a well-known part of the U.S. pharmaceutical system but have come under scrutiny in the last year amid public outrage over drug costs .
Because PBMs negotiate discounts from drugs ' total cost , critics charge that they also push prices higher to make their discounts appear more favorable .
Amazon poses `` both an opportunity and a threat '' for Express Scripts Holding Company , the largest stand-alone PBM , Gupte said .
Express Scripts announced on Tuesday that it will buy privately-held medical benefit management company eviCore healthcare for $ 3.6 billion , a move that some saw as a response to the Amazon threat .
Meanwhile , PBMs that are part of UnitedHealth Group and Humana Inc. will be more shielded , Gupte said .
Drug distributors such as McKesson Corp. , AmerisourceBergen Corp. and Cardinal Health Inc. will likely have less exposure in the near term , according to Leerink 's Larsen .
Reasons for skepticism : A recent report that Amazon had obtained approval to become a wholesale distributors in several states sent pharmaceutical supply chain stocks down again in late October .
But scrutiny of those approvals by the investment firm Jefferies found something important : Correspondence between two state pharmacy boards and Amazon showed that those state licenses could only be used for medical device and supplies distribution .
That does n't rule out a pharmaceutical entry , but it does suggest that Amazon is starting with other , potentially easier medical products .
Mizuho analyst Ann Hynes is another skeptic .
Before acquiring Whole Foods this year , Amazon had talked about entering the grocery industry for more than a decade , Hynes noted .
By contrast , Amazon has n't mentioned pharmacy on its earnings call in the past decade , Hynes said .
In addition , even after CNBC reported on the online retailer 's purported plan , the company did not list any pharmacy-related jobs , Hynes said .
And , if the company did decide to move into pharmacy , `` there is no obvious asset to buy , '' Hynes said .
Amazon would need to either build or buy pharmacy capabilities , Gupte said , and could target a smaller player like specialty pharmacy Avella or acquire a larger entity .
Many companies might also want to partner with Amazon , Leerink 's Gupte said , including the Blue Cross Blue Shield PBM unit Prime Therapeutics , `` to enhance its drug discounts and mail penetration . ''
So might Express Scripts and Walgreens , Larsen said .
Walgreens shares fell 3.4 % in Oct. 9 trade after the CNBC report , CVS shares declined 3.5 % , Wal-Mart shares rose 2.7 % and shares of Express Scripts plummeted 4.9 % .
Shares of the companies have dropped 13.4 % , 11.7 % , risen 12.4 % and dropped 1.9 % over the last three months , respectively , compared with a 4.5 % rise in the S&P 500 .