3 Reasons Why Amazon Is Scary to Netflix
Netflix CEO Reed Hastings calls Amazon `` scary '' and `` amazing '' Wednesday morning , and he 's right on both fronts .
Amazon is amazingly scary .
Be afraid .
Be very afraid .
Netflix CEO Reed Hastings was on CNBC Wednesday , and it did n't take long before Amazon.com was brought up in the conversation .
`` They 're so scary , '' Hastings said .
`` Everything Amazon does is just so amazing . ''
Hastings would n't concede that Amazon is Netflix 's biggest threat , but by praising the e-tail giant 's accomplishments and tagging it as `` awfully scary '' later on , it 's not much of a stretch to call Amazon the biggest potential disruptor to Netflix 's disruption .
Hastings is right to respect and fear Amazon .
Let 's go over a few reasons why Netflix ca n't take Amazon for granted .
1 . Prime Video disrupts the value proposition
Netflix is undeniably a great value at $ 9.99 a month .
It 's such a great deal that when Netflix told longtime subscribers grandfathered into $ 7.99 or $ 8.99 a month that they would all be paying the new rate last year , we did n't see a mass exodus .
Netflix wound up growing by a record 19 million net additions last year .
However , for the tens of millions of people already paying less than that -- $ 99 a year -- for Amazon Prime to get free two-day delivery of Amazon-warehoused merchandise , the fact that Amazon offers a growing digital catalog at no additional cost is huge .
Netflix has broader availability , and its original TV shows and specials are coming at a freakish pace .
New seasons of House of Cards and Bloodline just days apart ?
Are you kidding me ?
However , Amazon has a reasonable collection of content , including some popular shows and movies that are n't available on Netflix -- as well as a couple of Emmy-nominated originals .
For the growing number of people relying on Amazon for their shopping , the value proposition of quality video streams at no additional cost has to scare Netflix , even with 100 million subscribers .
2 . Pay-per-stream is a difference maker at Amazon
You wo n't find most of last year 's hottest movies on Netflix .
They 're on Amazon .
Most of them are n't part of the digital smorgasbord that it serves up as a perk to Amazon Prime members , but Hollywood blockbusters are available as either digital downloads or rentals .
Netflix has made it clear that it does n't want to play that game .
If you want a brand new home video release just pay for its fading DVD service and wait a few weeks .
However , Amazon offers instant gratification , and since Amazon and Netflix have found their way onto most set-top apps it makes it that much easier to close a transaction that was a heavy lift a few years ago .
Amazon has your payment information and your consent .
3 . Amazon is a loss leader leader
Grocery stores will stock cheap milk in the back , knowing that they can woo customers into adding additional items as they go through their supermarkets .
Sometimes it seems that all of Amazon is cheap milk .
It 's not afraid to sell electronic gadgetry at a loss .
Some would argue that Amazon can make that back in digital sales , but it offers massive online catalogs of video , music , and e-books at no additional cost to Amazon Prime members .
If Amazon thinks a niche is relevant -- from smart homes to restaurant delivery to cloud hosting -- it 's going to rip off its robe and do a massive water-displacing cannonball into the pool .
Right now , Amazon may appear to be merely toying with Netflix like a cat plays with a mouse before going in for the kill .
It 's letting Netflix do the dirty work of educating the global marketplace and breaking down content barriers .
Netflix knows that Amazon is scary , but it does n't seem scared .
Spoiler alert : Netflix should be petrified .