Amazon And Whole Foods Are Dropping Prices , This Will Change Grocery Forever
Amazon is once again shaking up the retail sector , with the announcement it will acquire upscale US grocer Whole Foods Market , known for its pricey organic options , in a deal that underscores the online giant 's growing influence in the economy .
Amazon is cutting prices at Whole Foods , beginning almost immediately .
That 's the news from Amazon today , barely a day after the FTC cleared its proposed $ 13.7 billion acquisition of the grocer .
On Monday Aug. 28 , the deal will close and prices in stores will drop .
It 's the news interested shoppers have been waiting for .
`` We 're determined to make healthy and organic food affordable for everyone .
Everybody should be able to eat Whole Foods Market quality -- we will lower prices without compromising Whole Foods Market 's long-held commitment to the highest standards , '' said Jeff Wilke , CEO of Amazon Worldwide Consumer in a statement .
`` To get started , we 're going to lower prices beginning Monday on a selection of best-selling grocery staples , including Whole Trade organic bananas , responsibly-farmed salmon , organic large brown eggs , animal-welfare-rated 85 % lean ground beef , and more . ''
Furthermore , Amazon Prime will become the de facto loyalty program at Whole Foods once the integration is more advanced .
Whole Foods store brands including 365 Everyday Value , Whole Foods Market , Whole Paws and Whole Catch will become available through Amazon.com , AmazonFresh , Prime Pantry and Prime Now .
More reasons for customers to join Prime , pay the annual fee and become loyal Amazon shoppers .
All of this simply escalates the war for the American Consumer .
The battle will be fierce , with Amazon going up against everyone from Kroger to Walmart and Target and of course , the last remaining independent grocers .
According to a statement , `` the two companies will together pursue the vision of making Whole Foods Market 's high-quality , natural and organic food affordable for everyone .
As a down payment on that vision , Whole Foods Market will offer lower prices starting Monday on a selection of best-selling grocery staples across its stores , with more to come . ''