Amazon ` will be a top 5 grocer in the U.S. ' with Whole Foods acquisition
Amazon does n't need to be the biggest grocer in the country , but wants to be among the top grocers in key cities , experts say
With the Whole Foods acquisition , Amazon is on its way to being a top U.S. grocer , experts say
And just like that , with its $ 13.7 billion acquisition of Whole Foods Market Inc. , Amazon.com Inc. has laid the path toward becoming a major U.S. grocery retailer .
`` Within the next five years Amazon will become a top five grocer in the U.S. , '' said Cooper Smith , director of Amazon research at L2 Inc. , a business intelligence firm .
`` In order to sustain their growth , they have to enter this market . ''
The supermarkets and grocery-store industry is a $ 611.9 billion business , according to the latest numbers from IBISWorld .
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. had 14.45 % of U.S. food and grocery market share for the full calendar year 2016 , according to numbers provided by GlobalData Retail , and Kroger Co. had 7.17 % .
By comparison , Whole Foods had 1.21 % and Amazon , 0.19 % .
On top of the usual U.S. players , grocers from abroad , including Aldi , which is committing billions to expanding its U.S. presence , and Lidl , which opened its first 10 stores just this week , are vying for a piece of the grocery pie .
`` Although industry revenue is only set to rise at an annualized rate of 0.8 % over the five years to 2022 , the transaction will allow the online retail giant to boost not only its grocery sales , but expand its brick-and-mortar presence , '' said Madeline Hurley , IBISWorld industry analyst , in a statement .
It 's not just all of the grocery sector , but all of retail in general that is affected by the deal , said Charlie O'Shea , Moody 's lead retail analyst .
But Wal-Mart might be the company on highest alert because of its dominant position in the market .
`` The CEO of Wal-Mart is not going to get a lot of sleep tonight , '' said L2 's Smith .
Not everyone thinks Wal-Mart is the company with the most to lose .
`` By going upmarket in acquiring Whole Foods , this will have more of an impact on Target and Costco than if they had gone after Kroger , for instance , which would have more directly affected Wal-Mart , '' wrote ConsumerEdge Research in a Friday note .
Despite the fact that AmazonFresh was launched a decade ago , grocery is still a category that Amazon has been working its way into .
By purchasing Whole Foods , Amazon has bought a well-known grocery brand whose customer base overlaps with the Amazon 's shoppers .
`` The Whole Foods customer is the Prime customer , '' said Smith , who defines the demographic as `` high - earning , young millennials . ''
Amazon is asking itself how it can `` capture as much of their wallet as possible . ''
To that end , it 's not Amazon 's goal to necessarily be the top grocer overall in the U.S.
Rather , according to Smith , Amazon wants to be among the top five in its core markets , places where these affluent millennials can be found : San Francisco ; New York City ; Boston ; Austin , Texas ; and Philadelphia .
But this acquisition will have an effect beyond just these five geographies , experts say .
Major players are now in Amazon 's crosshairs in the grocery space .
These include Kroger , which had already closed down nearly 19 % in Thursday trading and is down again in Friday trading , Target Co. , which discussed the need to transform its grocery business during its analyst event earlier this year , and Costco Wholesale Corp. , which has certain online advantages but has yet to fully capitalize on them , according to analysts .
`` As other brick and mortar retailers have come to realize the hard way that competing with Amazon is a formidable challenge , supermarkets will now have to contend with not only competition with each other and nontraditional grocers like Walmart and Target , but with a retailer like Amazon which has the financial capacity to price aggressively , and the smaller regional supermarket chains and independents will bear the most pain , '' said Moody 's Vice President Mickey Chadha , who expects that there will be additional consolidation in the supermarket sector .
Amazon shares closed Friday up 2.4 % , while Whole Foods shares have skyrocketed more than 29 % .
For the year so far , Amazon is up 38.8 % and Whole Foods is up 31.7 % .
The S&P 500 index SPX , +0.03 % is up 8.7 % for 2017 to date .