Jeff Bezos ' Fortune Continues To Soar As Amazon Stock Reaches New High
Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos is the richest he 's ever been , and he 's inching closer to becoming the world 's richest person as Amazon stock continues to hit all-time highs .
Bezos was the biggest dollar gainer of the week through May 26 .
His net worth increased by $ 2.8 billion , bringing him to an all-time high of $ 84.7 billion as of the close of trading on Friday .
Currently the third richest person in the world , Bezos is less than $ 4 billion away from unseating Microsoft cofounder Bill Gates , who 's the world 's wealthiest person with an estimated $ 88.5 billion fortune .
Bezos has had a rapid rise to the top of Forbes ' Real-Time Billionaires List over the past few years , and if the trend continues , he could soon be the richest person in the world .
Gates has been the world 's richest person on Forbes ' annual billionaire list for 18 out of the last 23 years .
When the 2017 Forbes Billionaires List was published in March , Bezos had a $ 72.8 billion fortune , which put him $ 13.2 billion behind Gates .
Now , three months later , Bezos ' net worth has climbed $ 11.9 billion , while Gates ' net worth has only increased $ 2.5 billion .
Amazon stock , which rose 4.5 % this week , has surged more than 30 % since the beginning of the year .
In early May , Bezos sold nearly $ 1 billion on Amazon stock in his biggest stock sale ever .
In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission , Bezos also disclosed that he gave shares worth $ 1 million to a non-profit .
Earlier this week , the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press announced that Bezos donated $ 1 million to the organization , the largest individual gift in its history .
Bezos started his career working for a hedge fund , but quit before he turned 30 to sell books online from his Seattle garage .
He joined Forbes ' list of the richest 400 Americans in 1998 , a year after he took his online bookseller public .
At that time , Bezos had a net worth of $ 1.6 billion .
He 's now worth more than 50 times that much .
Amazon was n't the only tech stock to have a good week .
Facebook and Google stock both climbed 5 % this week , while Oracle was up 3 % .
The billionaires behind these tech giants were four of the five biggest gainers of the week .
After Bezos , Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg , who was in Cambridge this week to give Harvard 's commencement address , was the next biggest dollar gainer .
His fortune increased by $ 1.7 billion to $ 63.3 billion .
Google cofounders Larry Page and Sergey Brin 's net worths each increased by $ 1.6 billion to $ 46.5 billion and $ 45.4 billion respectively , and Oracle CEO Larry Ellison 's fortune increased by $ 1.2 billion to $ 55.7 billion .