3 Reasons Amazon Is n't Done Growing Yet
Amazon stock has soared 63,000 % in the past 20 years , and this stock-watcher believes that it is not done yet .
Amazon has a penchant for disrupting industries .
For instance , it changed the way people bought and read books and is now working on futuristic delivery mechanisms such as self-driving trucks and drones .
Amazon 's strategy of pouring money aggressively into new ideas has worked wonders so far , helping the stock soar a whopping 63,000 % since going public 20 years ago as its top-line growth has taken off remarkably .
But investors who have missed Amazon 's gravy train so far should n't worry , as these three catalysts can help sustain the terrific growth .
Cloud growth Amazon 's cloud business came into being by accident , as the company initially wanted to build a service to help third-party retailers build their websites based on Amazon 's e-commerce infrastructure .
This idea gradually led to the formation of the Amazon Web Services AWS cloud infrastructure business in 2006 , giving it a tremendous lead in the market over rivals such as Microsoft , IBM , and Alphabet .
AWS has rapidly grown into a major moneymaker for the company .
The division 's revenue jumped 42 % year over year to $ 3.66 billion during the recently reported first quarter , thanks to the adoption of its platform by the likes of Snap , Dunkin' Brands , and many others .
That was about 10 % of total net sales .
More importantly , Amazon 's early move into cloud infrastructure services has reaped big dividends for the company , as AWS currently leads this space .
Market analyst firm Canalys puts AWS 's market share at 31 % in cloud infrastructure services , with Microsoft 's Azure cloud running a distant second .
In fact , AWS 's market share exceeds the combined strength of its three closest rivals , according to this data .
What 's more , the e-commerce giant is aggressively undertaking steps to defend its lead in this space by adding new features to its cloud services .
For instance , Amazon has now entered the software-as-a-service space with the launch of the Amazon Chime service in February .
This move should help it compete more effectively against Microsoft 's Skype tools that enable cloud-based communication .
Research and advisory firm Forrester expects public cloud revenue to hit a massive $ 236 billion in 2020 , so Amazon can make a lot more money in this space if it can successfully defend its market share .
Groceries
Amazon has started taking baby steps in the multibillion-dollar offline grocery market .
The company started testing the AmazonFresh concept in Seattle earlier this year , enabling customers to order items online then drive to an Amazon location for pick-up at a scheduled time , which can be as quick as 15 minutes after ordering .
The company is now testing this concept in Milwaukee as well , charging Amazon Prime members an additional $ 14.99 per month for the Fresh service .
The e-commerce giant is making a smart move by trying to sell groceries in this manner .
Customers can save a lot of time by pre-ordering items at home and paying online , while receiving fresh groceries at the appointed time .
Prime Video
Amazon 's Prime Video streaming service has reportedly racked up an impressive number of users within a short time , challenging established streaming companies such as Netflix and Hulu .
Amazon was estimated in 2016 to have 76 million Prime Video subscribers , which significantly exceeds Netflix 's 47 million U.S. subscribers .
The video subscriber growth is a result of the company 's strategy of bundling the service with the $ 99 annual fee for the Prime subscription , which also includes early access to deals and priority shipping .
The company also offers Prime Video as a stand-alone service for a monthly fee of $ 8.99 , making it cheaper than Netflix 's $ 9.99 plan while also enhancing its appeal among customers who do n't want the entire Prime package .
Video has also helped push up advertising dollars .
Amazon could bring more subscribers into its fold thanks to its latest move of offering live television through Prime Video , allowing customers to choose and pay for specific channels .
A Morgan Stanley research note has said Amazon 's advertising business could grow to $ 5 billion in 2018 .
The takeaway
Amazon is not going to run out of steam anytime soon as it pursues multibillion-dollar revenue opportunities in these fast-growing industries .
Investor should n't doubt the company 's ability to deliver more upside after fantastic gains over the past two decades .