Amazon.com Just Crushed Department Store Stocks Again With Prime Wardrobe
Prime Wardrobe is Amazon 's latest foray into the fashion market .
Should department stores be worried ?
The rapid growth of e-commerce has hit U.S. department stores hard , as American consumers have been cutting back dramatically on shopping trips -- particularly to traditional malls .
As a result , top department store chains such as Macy 's , Kohl 's , J.C. Penney , and Nordstrom have all been reporting weak comp sales trends .
Since the beginning of December 2016 , investors have really started to panic about the threat from Amazon.com .
While Amazon shares have soared , department store stocks have plunged , including declines of about 50 % at Macy 's and J.C. Penney .
Department store stocks took their latest dive last week after Amazon unveiled its new Prime Wardrobe service .
Yet while Prime Wardrobe will be an attractive option for some consumers , it 's not necessarily going to be the game changer that analysts expect .
What is Prime Wardrobe ?
In a nutshell , the goal of Prime Wardrobe is to allow Prime members to try on items in the comfort of their own homes with hassle-free returns and discounts for larger purchases .
The service is still in beta testing , but Amazon recently released some basic details about how it will work .
Customers will start by picking at least three items from fashion categories such as clothing , shoes , and accessories .
Once a customer receives a box , he or she will have a week to try on the items and decide what to keep .
Amazon will offer a 10 % discount to customers who keep three or four items from their box , and a 20 % discount to customers who buy five or more of the items .
Unwanted items get shipped back to Amazon using a prepaid return label that comes in the box .
Customers can even schedule a free home pickup , so there 's no need to take the box anywhere to ship it .
This is n't exactly revolutionary The Prime Wardrobe service will make it even easier to buy fashion goods from Amazon.com .
As a result , it should certainly help Amazon in its quest to continue gaining market share in fashion .
However , it 's important to recognize that this is just an incremental improvement .
Prime Wardrobe builds on Amazon 's existing fashion offerings .
For example , Amazon already allows free returns on most fashion items -- customers just have to drop the box off at an authorized United Parcel Service location .
The ability to schedule a free UPS pickup will make the return experience even easier , but it was already possible to try on items at home for free with Amazon.com .
Furthermore , the `` box '' concept was pioneered years ago by the likes of Stitch Fix and Nordstrom 's Trunk Club .
Both of those services offer a high-touch experience , with personal stylists picking out items for each box , rather than Amazon 's 100 % self-service model .
While Stitch Fix and Trunk Club have caught on with some consumers , they are hardly taking over the market .
Stitch Fix had $ 730 million of revenue last year .
Nordstrom does n't directly disclose Trunk Club 's revenue , but it was no more than $ 250 million in fiscal 2016 .
Nordstrom took a $ 197 million writedown on Trunk Club last November , due to disappointing growth and profitability in that business .
Amazon 's low prices and massive customer base should allow Prime Wardrobe to quickly soar past Trunk Club and Stitch Fix .
But there does n't appear to be huge pent-up demand for this kind of fashion-in-a-box service .
What will the selection be ?
Amazon says that Prime Wardrobe will offer more than 1 million items .
That may seem like a lot .
However , Amazon already had 30 million fashion items on its site a year and a half ago , and that number keeps growing .
Thus , it appears that Prime Wardrobe will include only a small fraction of Amazon 's fashion inventory .
Cheaper items may not be included in the service .
After all , it would be extremely difficult for Amazon to make money on boxes filled with a handful of $ 10 items given the likely return rate and the cost of offering free pickups for returns .
If that 's true , then investors may be overestimating the threat to J.C. Penney , Kohl 's , and Macy 's .
J.C. Penney and Kohl 's , in particular , sell lots of cheaper items that are less efficient to sell over the internet .
Additionally , these stores get a large proportion of their sales from private and exclusive brands .
Kohl 's gets nearly half of its sales from private brands , following a recent push to add more popular national brands .
J.C. Penney is looking to get 70 % of its revenue from private and exclusive brands by 2019 , while Macy 's aims to boost private and exclusive lines to 40 % of sales by 2020 , compared to 29 % today .
J.C. Penney relies on private and exclusive brands for most of its revenue .
High penetration of private and exclusive brands is a natural defense against competition , although it is certainly not a panacea .
But it allows J.C. Penney , Kohl 's , and Macy 's to offer unique styles and very competitive prices .
At the other end of the spectrum , customers rely on Nordstrom to find new designers and curate a fashion assortment .
So while most of its items are not exclusive , the big brands that Amazon will sell through Prime Wardrobe are n't Nordstrom 's main focus .
Prime Wardrobe will probably become a successful part of Amazon 's fashion offerings .
But it 's not radically different from what Amazon already offers .
Notwithstanding investors ' fears , Prime Wardrobe is n't likely to make department stores like Macy 's , Kohl 's , J.C. Penney , and Nordstrom redundant .