Boeing Delivers Its First 737 MAX , Just As Planned
A recent discovery of manufacturing defects in some 737 MAX engines did n't stop Boeing from handing over the first 737 MAX 8 to launch customer Malindo Air on Tuesday .
After botching the development of its 787 Dreamliner -- leading to big delays and even bigger cost overruns -- Boeing was much more cautious with the 737 MAX , an upgraded version of its best-selling line of jets .
Up until very recently , this approach was working extremely well , putting the 737 MAX on track to be delivered several months early .
However , last week , Boeing seemed to hit a snag , as it was forced to ground the entire 737 MAX test fleet because of a manufacturing problem related to some 737 MAX engines .
However , as many industry experts had predicted , the fleet grounding turned out to be a non-event .
This allowed Boeing to go ahead with its first delivery of the 737 MAX on Tuesday .
Boeing is relying on the 737 MAX While the Boeing 737 MAX has often been dismissed as an inferior competitor to Airbus ' A320neo family , it is still a hugely important product for Boeing .
Indeed , it is the fastest-selling jet in Boeing 's history .
The 737 MAX has sold extremely well over the past six years .
As of the end of April , Boeing had a backlog of 5,704 firm orders across all of its commercial aircraft lines .
More than 3,700 of those orders were for the 737 MAX .
The 737 MAX thus represents Boeing 's most important potential driver of revenue , profit , and cash flow growth for the coming decade .
Getting the first one delivered on time and then ramping up production smoothly has been a critical priority for Boeing .
No need to worry As one aerospace analyst put it , last week 's brief period of concern about 737 MAX engine defects was `` a tempest in a teapot . ''
First , the cause of the problem was already known by the time the fleet was grounded .
Second , there were never indications that these defects were part of a larger problem .
Third , the component in question was manufactured by multiple suppliers -- and only one of them was responsible for the defective parts .
Still , Boeing needed to get regulators to sign off before it could resume test flights and start delivering planes .
This could have caused problems due to launch operator Malindo Air 's aggressive plan to put its first 737 MAX into service on May 19 .
Fortunately , the FAA quickly cleared Boeing to restart test flights using engines without the potentially defective components .
As a result , it was able to deliver the first 737 MAX to Malindo Air on Tuesday , just a day later than previously planned .
That may still allow the carrier to get the plane back to Malaysia in time for the scheduled entry into service on Friday .
Avoiding a big delay in that first delivery was particularly important because Malindo Air is a subsidiary of fast-growing Indonesian airline group Lion Air .
Lion Air is the No. 1 customer for Boeing 's 737 MAX , with 201 firm orders .
Now comes an even bigger challenge The 737 MAX is n't nearly as technically complex as the 787 Dreamliner , but it 's still notable that Boeing was able to execute a more-or-less flawless development program .
That said , ramping up production may prove to be the real challenge .
Over the next two to three years , Boeing plans to switch over all of its 737 production to the new-engine models , while simultaneously ramping up output from 42 per month to 57 per month .
Aggressive output targets at Boeing and Airbus have put suppliers under a lot of strain , particularly for the new engines .
Boeing 's engine supplier , CFM , will now have to address the recent manufacturing defect in the midst of this aggressive production growth .
Time will tell whether it is up to the challenge , or if Boeing will instead have to modify its production plans .