Boeing 's T-X Could Be Good News For Struggling St. Louis Economy
The Boeing Company disclosed Monday that if it wins the competition to build a next-generation training aircraft for the Air Force , the plane will be assembled at its sprawling manufacturing complex by the St. Louis airport .
That would be a significant boost for a local economy that has n't gotten much good news lately .
No major U.S. city has lost a larger portion of its population in the postwar period than St. Louis , not even Detroit .
Demographers say the city 's population could dip below 300,000 in the next census , which is a huge drop from the 856,796 residents recorded in 1950 .
Much of that decline is traceable to the exodus of manufacturing jobs .
Everywhere you look in the city and its inner suburbs , there are signs of industrial decay .
But not at Boeing .
The nation 's top exporter and number-two military supplier has sustained a commitment to the St. Louis region that began when James Smith McDonnell set up the McDonnell Aircraft Corporation at Lambert Field in 1938 .
McDonnell Aircraft would go on to become the world 's leading manufacturer of jet fighters during the Cold War , and a major player in other facets of aerospace .
Boeing Boeing 's T-X trainer flies near Saint Louis .
If Boeing wins the competition to build the plane , it would have important economic benefits for the city and region .
McDonnell merged with Douglas Aircraft to become McDonnell Douglas in 1967 , and then 30 years later it in turn merged with Boeing to form the world 's biggest aircraft producer .
At the time , the disappearance of the McDonnell name was widely viewed as evidence of the region 's economic decline , but Boeing has maintained a major presence , making the airport complex the hub of its defense and space operations .
Over 14,000 people are employed there , mainly in the engineering , assembly and support of high-performance aircraft .
It is by far the largest manufacturing employer in Missouri , and winning the T-X competition would help it to preserve that status .
The Air Force does n't think much about how its program decisions impact the national economy -- it typically is looking for the best performance at the lowest price -- but President Trump may have something to say about that .