Boeing Roundup : Boeing lands deals with Saudi Arabia
The Boeing Co. announced Sunday defense and commercial agreements with Saudi Arabia during a visit by President Donald Trump to the country .
Saudi Arabia has agreed to purchase from Boeing Chinook helicopters and associated support services and weapon systems and intends to order P-8 maritime , patrol and reconnaissance aircraft , which are based on the Boeing 737 commercial plan .
Boeing gets a boost after Trump 's $ 110B deal with Saudi Arabia
Defense stocks were up after U.S. President Donald Trump inked a $ 110 billion defense deal with Saudi Arabia .
That is boosting the likes of Boeing Co. -- which has production and technology operations at Mesa 's Falcon Field .
Defense sales to Saudi Arabia could be a boost for Wichita suppliers
The announcement over the weekend of hundreds of millions of dollars of military sales to Saudi Arabia sent defense stocks climbing Monday , a surge that could also lift the aerospace defense base in Wichita .
Spirit AeroSystems and the eye-popping numbers of the Boeing 737 MAX
The Boeing Co. this week delivered its first 737 MAX , the first of thousands more to follow from a family of revamped narrow-body passenger jets that are the company 's fastest selling model ever .
Each delivery will rely on a tightly-wound supply chain that features Wichita as its most important player .
Boeing grants bolster STEM education and veterans
Despite facing a difficult global sales environment , Boeing has distributed $ 6 million in grants to more than 50 educational institutions and nonprofits across Washington state over the past year .
Icelandair sells four Boeing 737 Max jets and leases them back -- before they 're even delivered Icelandair is selling and leasing back four Boeing 737 Max jets in a deal with a Chinese company , even before Boeing 's plant in Renton delivers the aircraft .
Icelandair said the jets involved are two Boeing 737 Max 8s and two of the larger Boeing 737 Max 9s , both of which are made in Renton .