Boeing Wins Contract to Build DARPA XS-1 Experimental Space Plane
But hey !
What happened to Blue Origin ?
For nearly three years now , we 've been following the saga of the XS-1 Spaceplane -- the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency 's DARPA project to build a new and improved , 21st-century space shuttle .
Designed to fly `` 10 times in 10 days , '' the unmanned XS-1 will rocket to the edge of space and then fire a different rocket to launch payloads into orbit -- never leaving the atmosphere itself , and never actually entering orbit .
Instead , after delivering its cargo the XS-1 will return to land on Earth like an airplane .
In contrast to the actual space shuttle , which famously cost about $ 1 billion a mission to fly , XS-1 aims to deliver up to 3,000 pounds of cargo to orbit for just $ 5 million per flight .
NASA has hired privately held Vector to build the second-stage `` rocket '' that will push payloads the last mile into orbit , using Vector 's internally developed Vector-R rocket for this purpose .
The question up till now , though , has been who would build the spaceplane itself .
Would it be : Boeing , in collaboration with Amazon.com CEO Jeff Bezos ' `` Blue Origin '' space company ?
Northrop Grumman , teaming up with Sir Richard Branson 's Virgin Galactic ?
Or privately held Masten Space Systems , working with equally private XCOR Aerospace ?
Now we know the answer : It 's Boeing ... and Aerojet Rocketdyne .
Boeing wins the prize -- but not Blue Origin
On Wednesday , May 24 , DARPA made its announcement : Boeing will `` build and fly an experimental vehicle for aircraft-like access to space . ''
Dubbed the Boeing Phantom Express , this will be the `` first of an entirely new class of hypersonic aircraft that would bolster national security by providing short-notice , low-cost access to space . ''
After Boeing successfully completed phase 1 of the XS-1 competition , DARPA has tapped the company to proceed through phases 2 and 3 as well -- fabrication and flight .
And yet , Boeing 's victory seems to have left Blue Origin in the lurch .
Somewhere between 2014 , when Boeing entered this competition , and this week , when Boeing won it , Blue Origin appears to have fallen off the Boeing team , to be replaced by Blue Origin 's rocket-building rival Aerojet Rocketdyne .
According to DARPA 's press release , `` the XS-1 technology demonstrator 's propulsion system is an Aerojet Rocketdyne AR-22 engine , a version of the legacy Space Shuttle main engine SSME . ''
In confirmation of this , Aerojet issued its own press release on Wednesday , stating that `` Aerojet Rocketdyne is a member of the Boeing team '' and that it has been `` selected to provide the main propulsion for the Boeing and the U.S. Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA reusable Experimental Spaceplane XS-1 . ''
So it 's official now : DARPA will proceed with building its spaceplane , with Boeing and Aerojet Rocketdyne doing the work .
So what happens now ?
What happens now According to DARPA , Boeing and Aerojet Rocketdyne now move into phase 2 of the project , transforming XS-1 from concept into aircraft .
This should be accomplished before the end of 2019 , and will include at least 10 test-firings of the Phantom Express ' engines over the course of 10 days .
This accomplished , the companies will proceed to phase 3 in 2020 , running between 12 and 15 flight tests to prove the aircraft can actually fly 10 times in 10 days .
Ultimately , DARPA will ask its contractors to demonstrate Phantom Express ' ability to hit flight speeds of Mach 10 , and launch a demonstration payload weighing between 900 and 3,000 pounds into low-earth orbit .
If they succeed in doing this , they 'll prove the ability to put a pound of payload in orbit for as little as $ 1,700 -- and change the economics of spaceflight forever .