Iran Confident About $ 3 Billion Boeing Deal as U.S. Mulls Sanctions
Aseman Airlines signs definitive agreement for 737 Max jets
Boeing seeking license from U.S. Treasury to complete deal 
An Iranian airline that signed a $ 3 billion contract at list prices with Boeing Co. is confident the deal wo n't face a political backlash in Washington , days after the U.S. Senate voted to advance a bill that could bring new sanctions against the Islamic Republic .
Aseman Airlines , a private company whose largest owner is Iran 's National Pension Fund , signed a final purchase agreement with Boeing in Tehran on Saturday for 30 737 Max jets and an option for 30 more , spokesman Amir Reza Mostafavi said in an interview .
Boeing will deliver the first jets in 2022 .
`` We 're a commercial company , like Boeing is a commercial company , and we 're operating in an economic sphere , not a political one , '' Mostafavi said .
`` In this area , work is moving forward and things are getting under way . ''
Boeing has applied to the U.S. Treasury 's Office of Foreign Assets Control , or OFAC , for a license to see the deal through , it said in an emailed statement .
Boeing and Aseman first announced the order in April .
It 's Boeing 's second plane sale to an Iranian airline since the 1970s , following a $ 16.6 billion agreement with Iran Air that the Chicago-based manufacturer is still finalizing .
The Aseman contract presents a test of the planemaker 's ties with President Donald Trump , pitting his policy of promoting U.S. manufacturing jobs against the administration 's vow to take a tougher stance on Iran .
Pending Approval
An order of this size creates or sustains 18,000 jobs in the U.S. , Boeing said , citing the Commerce Department .
Perhaps indicating the political complexity of deals with Iran , the company emphasized that `` it continues to follow the lead of the U.S. government with regards to working with Iran 's airlines , and any and all contracts with Iran 's airlines are contingent upon U.S. government approval . ''
June 7 , the same day Islamic State claimed responsibility for an attack on Iran 's parliament that killed 12 people , U.S. senators overwhelmingly voted to advance a bill that would impose new sanctions on the oil-rich country .
The bill would authorize Trump to impose restrictions on businesses or individuals that the U.S. accuses of knowingly providing Iran with material support for ballistic missile testing .
Trump 's own position on the 2015 Iran nuclear deal , which was brokered by the previous Democratic administration and led to the easing of sanctions last year , has been unclear .
He has in the past criticized it for being `` horrible '' but has n't yet moved to unwind Washington 's commitment to its terms .
`` There should n't be any problems , '' Mostafavi said .
`` Iran Air was granted its OFAC license and so we do n't anticipate any issues either . ''
Aseman will finance 5 percent of the cost via a cash payment to Boeing and the planemaker will arrange financing for the remaining 95 percent , he said .