Boeing Defense to Cut 50 Executive Jobs in Management Shakeup
- About 60 other positions will be moved to services operation
- Moves advance CEO 's efforts to cut costs throughout company
Boeing Co. 's defense business is shedding about 50 executive positions , eliminating a layer of management and expanding the operational role of the division 's boss , Leanne Caret .
Starting July 1 , the $ 29.5 billion defense unit 's main businesses -- Boeing Military Aircraft and Network & Space Systems -- will split into smaller entities reporting directly to Caret , the company said in a statement Tuesday .
A third segment is being transferred to Boeing Global Services , a new operation to be launched next month .
The moves advance Boeing Chief Executive Officer Dennis Muilenburg 's efforts to tamp down costs .
Caret has the added challenge of meeting the CEO 's goal for bolstering profit margins while losing a lucrative segment to the services unit .
The changes are designed to speed decision-making , Caret said in an interview .
`` Everything is moving faster , '' she said of the competitive environment for defense contractors .
As she took stock of the second-largest U.S. defense business last year after taking over as its head , Caret said her priorities were to lower costs , encourage innovation and determine `` how we can be most responsive to our customers . ''
One of her first moves was to shift work or close sites in Southern California , Missouri , Alabama , Washington , Texas and Virginia .
Caret also moved the defense unit 's headquarters from St. Louis to Northern Virginia to be closer to the Pentagon .
Caret had mulled streamlining the management structure , but decided to wait as plans evolved for the services group .
`` Change upon change is hard , '' she said .
`` So we wanted to make sure we do it in a smart fashion . ''
About 60 defense executives will be transferred to the services operation , said Todd Blecher , a spokesman for Chicago-based Boeing .
That unit -- which will combine defense and commercial aircraft parts , maintenance and information technology products -- is a key initiative for Muilenburg , who sees it evolving into a $ 50 billion business .
New Structure
Boeing 's development , global operations and Phantom Works segments reporting to Caret will be largely unchanged .
The main businesses will be divided into four smaller units : Strike , Surveillance and Mobility will be led by Shelley Lavender , Boeing 's senior executive in its former St. Louis defense hub .
It replaces the segment formerly known as Boeing Military Aircraft , which Lavender also ran .
Space and Missile Systems will be headed by Jim Chilton .
It includes Boeing 's share of the United Launch Alliance joint venture with Lockheed Martin Corp. , the International Space Station and other areas .
Autonomous Systems , which includes the Insitu and Liquid Robotics subsidiaries , will be led Chris Raymond .
It includes the Echo Voyager maritime drone and unmanned vertical lift .
Vertical Lift , headed by David Koopersmith , will manage Boeing 's Apache and Chinook helicopter programs and the V-22 Osprey tilt rotor .