At More Than $ 200 a Share , Is Boeing Still a Buy ?
1 Analyst Thinks So
Boeing 's price looks steep , but looks can be deceiving .
Every day , Wall Street analysts upgrade some stocks , downgrade others , and `` initiate coverage '' on a few more .
But do these analysts even know what they 're talking about ?
Today , we 're taking one high-profile Wall Street pick and putting it under the microscope ... Strange as it may seem for a large , `` old economy '' industrial stock , shares of Boeing have flown 56 % higher over the past year -- four times better than the rest of the S&P 500 .
Of course , at a new and improved stock price of $ 207.52 this morning , Boeing stock looks really expensive right now , selling for more than 25.4 times trailing earnings .
But according to investment banker JPMorgan , it 's not expensive .
This morning , analysts at JPMorgan announced they are upgrading Boeing stock to overweight i.e. , buy .
What 's more , even if you think Boeing stock looks expensive at $ 207 and change , JP thinks it can go higher -- as high as $ 240 a share , in fact .
Why ?
Here are three things you need to know .
Everyone loves Boeing 's 737 -- and JPMorgan loves Boeing stock .
1. A long time coming
In making today 's upgrade , JPMorgan noted that Boeing has n't gotten a lot of upgrades this year -- and JP should know .
JP itself has n't been bullish on Boeing stock for nearly a year and a half .
Fact is , the last time we heard from JP , it was way back in February 2016 , and JP was busy downgrading Boeing to neutral .
As StreetInsider.com requires subscription reported at the time , JPMorgan had predicted Boeing stock would fall to $ 120 .
Instead , it 's gone up -- a lot .
2. Curbed enthusiasm
Selling for nearly twice what the investment banker predicted a little more than a year ago that it would be worth today , it kind of looks like JPMorgan missed the boat on this one .
But in its own defense , the analyst points out that it 's not alone : All year long , says JP , `` active investors have been off the radar when it comes to establishing or adding to large positions . ''
Could it be that they were frightened of the valuation ?
3. Valuing Boeing
At a P/E ratio of 25.4 , that would certainly be understandable .
Best case , 25.4 times earnings is n't much of a discount to the average valuation of S&P 500 stocks , which currently clocks in at 25.9 times earnings .
Worst case , for a stock expected to grow at only 16 % annually over the next five years , a 25.4 times earnings valuation gives Boeing stock a PEG ratio of 1.6 , and makes it , in value investor parlance , 60 % overpriced .
But here 's the thing : While Boeing stock has a high P/E , that metric looks only at GAAP `` accounting earnings '' drawn from Boeing 's income statement .
It overlooks the fact that Boeing generates a lot of actual cash profit that never makes it onto the income statement -- but that is easily visible on Boeing 's cash flow statement .
Data from S&P Global Market Intelligence show that Boeing generated positive free cash flow i.e. , cash profits of $ 9 billion over the past year , which is about 76.5 % more cash profit than the company 's income statement reflects .
Valued on this free cash flow , Boeing stock costs not 25.4 times earnings , but a mere 13.8 times cash profits .
Yet Boeing is continuing to grow its business , buoyed by what JPMorgan calls `` positive aero fundamentals . ''
Basically , a booming market for commercial jets .
Given that Boeing is expected to grow 16 % annually , 13.8 times FCF really does n't look like an expensive valuation at all .
Value , with a dividend kicker That 's not even mentioning the fact that with so much cash flowing into its coffers , Boeing is able to afford a very generous dividend for its shareholders .
Indeed , even with its stock price as high as it is , Boeing 's $ 5.68 per share in annual dividends translate into a 2.75 % dividend yield , which is more generous than what the average S&P 500 stock pays .
Long story short : When JPMorgan says Boeing is cheap , and likely to go higher -- it 's probably right about that .