Boeing 's Low-Altitude Bid
Boeing Co. 's purported bid for Embraer SA looks low .
Boeing has been aggressively pursuing a takeover of the Brazilian regional jet maker , a remarkable shift for a company that dubbed a similar combination struck by Airbus SE and Bombardier Inc. in October `` a questionable deal '' that would n't force it to change its strategic path .
Many details are still being sorted , the most important being whether the Brazilian government , which has veto power , will support an acquisition .
But at least one thing has reportedly been worked out : the price .
According to the Wall Street Journal , Boeing and Embraer have informally agreed to a deal at ... $ 28 a share .
That 's hardly the `` relatively large '' premium that previous reports had indicated was coming .
A bid of $ 28 would be 40 percent higher than where Embraer was trading before news emerged of Boeing 's interest .
That 's not insignificant , but also not atypical in M&A , especially lately .
It 's also worth noting that Embraer 's stock had taken a hit this fall as the company faced the prospect of heightened competition from the Bombardier-Airbus combination , a problem it could better handle as part of Boeing .
Falling Short
Investors were clearly expecting more .
The American depositary receipts had climbed to about $ 27 heading into Friday , a level that 's untenable if the ultimate price is just $ 1 higher because the deal has n't even officially been inked yet and faces significant regulatory hurdles .
Thus , news of the price sent Embraer 's ADRs plummeting as much as 7 percent .
Shareholders had every right to be more optimistic .
Embraer is a crown jewel for Brazil .
While Boeing is still negotiating with the government over what would happen with Embraer 's defense business and how much say politicians would have going forward , a hefty offer was assumed to be part of its argument .
The regional-jet hole in Boeing 's lineup has been laid bare by its trade dispute with Bombardier over claims the Canadian company used low prices to unfairly compete for a Delta Air Lines Inc. order for which Boeing was n't even a contender .
If Boeing is serious about catching up to the new Airbus-Bombardier union , it does n't have many other options that match the scale of Embraer .
And yet Boeing 's offer values Embraer 's ADRs at a discount to the median multiple paid in major aerospace and defense deals over the past decade , according to data compiled by Bloomberg .
Takeovers targets of more than $ 1 billion have typically commanded about 13 times Ebitda .
Relatively ( Not ) Large
Boeing 's reported bid for Embraer is just a modest bump up from where the company had already climbed on news of its interest .
The valuation wo n't take your breath away .
Not all of the acquisitions in this industry are perfect comparisons ; Embraer has no hope of fetching the kind of pricey valuation that higher-margin avionics supplier Rockwell Collins Inc. did from United Technologies Corp. last year , for example .
But Lockheed Martin Corp. paid 13 times Ebitda to acquire helicopter maker Sikorsky from United Technologies in 2015 , or a little over 10 times if you adjust for the benefits of tax maneuver .
Something in that ranges seems more reasonable for Embraer .
Boeing still has work to do to secure an Embraer acquisition .
Perhaps that should include re-evaluating the price .
The Brazilian government is n't the only stakeholder it has to please .