Bank of America 's latest mobile feature ?
A tool to buy a car
Bank of America is rolling out a mobile car-shopping platform in the Carolinas
Bank of America has launched a digital car-shopping service in its mobile app .
Clients can now search for a car , estimate the monthly payment and apply for a loan on their phones .
The bank is kicking off the pilot program in the Carolinas and will roll out the car-shopping platform to other markets throughout the year .
Steve Boland , the bank 's head of consumer lending , said the service will be available across the country by the end of 2017 .
Bank of America is partnering with dealerships around the Carolinas to first offer the service .
The customer can search for cars through the app , apply for financing and then go into the dealer to test drive and finalize the sale .
Boland said the bank already has relationships with about 9,000 dealers around the country to provide financing .
In a phone interview , Boland said the new feature is an expansion of the company 's mobile efforts .
Last year the bank redesigned its mobile app and added touch ID sign in , a Spanish version of the app , the ability to read statements on mobile and more .
Now customers can add car shopping to that list .
The bank says more consumers looking for a new car start the search online today .
The new shopping platform makes the experience more efficient and convenient , the banks says .
Bank of America had about 22 million mobile users at the end of March .
`` We continue to listen to clients and say , ' How can we continue to make the financial services we have more convenient ?
''' Boland said .
The bank says once a customer selects a vehicle and applies for a car loan through the mobile app , they will receive a decision within seconds .
Then they receive an approval letter in an email .
There 's also a 30-day rate lock if clients need more time to decide .
`` We 've achieved the seamless experience our clients have told us they want , '' Boland said .
`` When people go to the dealership they want to focus on the car purchase and not the financing . ''