Bank of America Earnings Hurt by Tax-Related Charge
Bank of America has made a concerted effort to cut costs and focus on safer businesses such as lending to consumers with good credit .
Above , customers use ATMs at a bank in New York .
Bank of America has made a concerted effort to cut costs and focus on safer businesses such as lending to consumers with good credit .
Bank of America Corp. said a charge from the new U.S. tax law caused quarterly profit to fall by 48 % , even as the bank ended 2017 with its crisis-era issues firmly in the past .
The Charlotte , N.C.-based bank on Wednesday reported fourth-quarter profit of $ 2.37 billion , or 20 cents a share .
That was down from $ 4.54 billion a year earlier .
Without the $ 2.9 billion tax charge , however , the bank 's profit would have risen to $ 5.3 billion , or 47 cents a share .
Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had expected earnings of 44 cents a share on an adjusted basis .
For the year , the bank posted a $ 21.1 billion profit , excluding the tax adjustment .
That roughly matched the bank 's all-time profit record from 2006 , when it was a simpler consumer-focused firm that had n't yet bought ailing mortgage lender Countrywide Financial Corp. or investment bank Merrill Lynch & Co.
The bank 's executives said Wednesday that the 2018 outlook is bright .
That is because the one-time hit from the tax bill is expected to be outweighed by the law 's longer-term benefits .
The fourth-quarter charge was largely due to the bank writing down its deferred tax assets .
These credits to offset future tax bills were created by past losses , in many cases huge ones racked up during the financial crisis .
The assets generally lose value when tax rates fall .
The bank expects its effective tax rate for 2018 to be 20 % , down from an expected 29 % before the new tax law , Chief Financial Officer Paul Donofrio said on a call with reporters Wednesday morning .
Chief Executive Brian Moynihan said he expected most of the bank 's benefit from the tax cut would go to shareholders , who should expect higher capital returns in the form of dividends or share buybacks .
Some of it will be spent on investments .
Mr. Moynihan also reiterated that he expected tax changes would eventually lead to more loan growth .
The benefits from the tax bill are expected to accelerate the progress Bank of America has made rebuilding its business after the financial crisis .
As recently as 2014 , the lender 's results were dogged by tens of billions of dollars in penalties over financial-crisis era issues .
Since then , the company 's legal problems have eased , as Mr. Moynihan has made a concerted effort to cut costs and focus on safer businesses such as lending to consumers with good credit .
The boost from the tax bill will expedite the bank 's timeline for meeting long-held performance goals of a 1 % return on assets and a 12 % return on tangible common equity , Mr. Moynihan said .
Excluding the effect of the tax bill , those metrics stood at 0.9 % and 10.9 % in the fourth quarter .
The bank has recently had the help of rising interest rates , which are boosting profits .
Bank of America 's net-interest income was $ 11.46 billion , up about 11 % from a year earlier .
It paid slightly higher rates to depositors in the quarter , though holders of regular savings accounts are still getting almost nothing in interest .
The rate the bank paid on U.S. interest-bearing deposits was 0.27 % , compared with 0.24 % in the prior quarter .
It also cut expenses to $ 54.74 billion on the year , coming closer to a $ 53 billion target the bank has set for 2018 .
Revenue for the year rose 4 % to $ 87.4 billion .
There were still some hiccups in the quarter .
One was a $ 292 million charge related to `` a single-name non-U.S. commercial '' client in the fourth quarter .
A person familiar with the matter said this came from the bank 's lending activity involving troubled firm Steinhoff International Holdings NV .
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Citigroup Inc. both took similar charges for loans involving the retailer , which is battling burgeoning financial problems after disclosing possible accounting irregularities .
Trading revenue was another weak spot , as it has been for other large U.S. banks including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. .
Excluding an accounting adjustment , Bank of America 's trading revenue fell about 9 % to $ 2.66 billion from $ 2.91 billion in last year 's fourth quarter , though that was less than the bank initially predicted .
The lender 's improving fortunes recently helped lift its stock above $ 30 a share for the first time since 2008 .
Shares are up more than 80 % since the 2016 presidential election , when hopes for deregulation , tax cuts and rate increases sent stocks in the sector higher .
Shareholders greeted Bank of America 's latest results with caution , sending the bank 's shares 0.8 % lower in morning trading .
The bank had to issue so many new shares to deal with its crisis-era problems that per-share profits remain far below pre-2008 levels .
And Bank of America still trades at a lower valuation than some competitors like JPMorgan Chase .