Bank of America Wants to Make It Easier for You to Get a Mortgage
Bank of America CEO Brian Moynihan recently said that one regulatory change he 'd like to see would be the reduction of the standard down payment on a mortgage from 20 % to 10 % .
If this happened , Moynihan believes that more buyers would be able to obtain affordable mortgages , and banks would benefit from the added business , a win-win .
The majority of U.S. mortgages are underwritten to strict standards set by government-sponsored enterprises Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac .
And one long-standing provision of these standards is a down payment requirement of 20 % .
When speaking about potential regulatory reforms , Moynihan said , `` Our goal -- going back to regulatory reform -- is should you move the down payment requirement from 20 percent to 10 ? ''
He went on to say that doing so could have a big , positive impact on the U.S. mortgage industry .
`` It would n't introduce that much risk , but would actually help a lot of mortgages get done . ''
To be perfectly clear , it 's already quite possible to obtain a conventional mortgage without putting 20 % down .
In fact , Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac both have programs designed to approve borrowers with down payments of as little as 3 % .
However , any down payment below the current standard of 20 % on a conventional mortgage adds the additional expense of private mortgage insurance PMI .
While this would conceivably still apply to loans with less than 10 % down , if the standard down payment were lowered to 10 % , it would make it easier for potential borrowers to avoid PMI without having to save up nearly as much cash .
Here 's an example of how much of a difference this can make in terms of home affordability : Let 's say that you want to buy a house for $ 300,000 , but do n't have $ 60,000 sitting in your savings account for a 20 % down payment .
However , you can reasonably come up with $ 30,000 , so you apply for a 30-year conventional mortgage anyway .
Based on a 4 % interest rate , this would produce a monthly payment of $ 1,289 principal and interest .
In addition , because you put less than 20 % down , you 'll also pay $ 133 per month for PMI , based on the current national averages .
In other words , the result of the lower down payment is an increase of more than 10 % on your monthly mortgage payment .
An additional $ 133 may not sound like too much , but since it must be paid until the loan-to-value falls below 80 % , this means that over the course of your mortgage , you 'll pay $ 8,911 more than you would have without PMI .
Anytime the down payment standards for mortgages are relaxed , it immediately conjures up fears that the mortgage crisis will repeat itself .
It 's certainly understandable why people would feel that way -- after all , easy access to mortgages with little or no money down was a major contributing factor to the mortgage meltdown .
However , it 's important to point out one big difference .
Lending standards have gotten much higher than their pre-crisis levels , and as long as that stays the same , there 's no reason to worry about another foreclosure epidemic .
To illustrate this , consider that as of April 2017 , the average FICO credit score for an approved conventional purchase mortgage was 753 , which is generally considered to be very good credit .
Employment , assets , and income are now thoroughly verified , as anyone who has applied for a mortgage within the past eight years or so can tell you .
Also , mortgage lenders tend to hold lower down payment borrowers to somewhat higher standards .
The point is , as long as lenders such as Bank of America are maintaining high credit standards and thorough verification practices , a lower down payment wo n't necessarily translate into an uptick in the loan default rate .
The bottom line is that lowering the down payment requirement to 10 % would make homeownership more affordable to many Americans , could be a positive catalyst to the housing market , and would provide a boost to the mortgage lending business of Bank of America and other mortgage originators .
While there is still some due diligence that would need to happen in order to responsibly relax the down payment requirement as Moynihan suggests , this could turn into a big win for would-be homebuyers and bank investors alike .