Bank of America Hires Law Firm to Help Probe $ 292 Million Loss
Bank of America has hired Davis Polk & Wardwell to look into a $ 292 million charge tied to a soured loan to the parent company of Mattress Firm and Sleepy 's .
Bank of America Corp. has brought in an outside law firm to help examine a soured lending arrangement that led to a $ 292 million charge in last year 's fourth quarter , according to people familiar with the matter .
The losses sprang from financing involving troubled South African firm Steinhoff International Holdings SNH 8.66 % NV , the people said .
Bank of America is trying to figure out if the losses , which surfaced at many big global banks , could somehow have been avoided , the people said .
The inquiry is being conducted by law firm Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP and began late last year , the people said .
The law firm recently has interviewed Bank of America staff , some of the people added .
Bank of America 's board is being kept abreast of the inquiry , which is ongoing , some of the people said .
`` One of the reasons we have record-low credit losses is because we take the time to analyze what happened when things do n't go as planned and learn from it .
It 's the responsible thing for a financial institution to do , '' a bank spokesman said .
Bank of America Chief Executive Brian Moynihan alluded to the inquiry on the bank 's earnings call in January .
`` It is always a wake-up call that some things do n't turn out well , and we got to go back and what are lessons learned and what did we do right or wrong on that and how we avoid that in the future , '' Mr. Moynihan said of the loss .
`` We were n't happy with it , from the top of the house through to the actual people who were involved in it . ''
Bank of America was one of a number of global lenders that held pieces of a € 1.6 billion ( $ 2.0 billion ) loan to Christo Wiese , then chairman of the South African retailer .
Mr. Wiese 's shares in the company served as collateral for the financing .
Those shares collapsed in value last fall after the retailer , which owns Mattress Firm and the Sleepy 's brand , disclosed accounting irregularities .
The speed of the resulting share-price decline -- the stock was worth 120 % of the loan on Dec. 5 and less than 24 % two days later -- left banks few good options .
In addition to Bank of America , Citigroup Inc. , JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group disclosed losses to what was typically described as a single-name client in the fourth quarter .
This client , people familiar with the matter said , was Steinhoff .
The four banks booked a combined hit to fourth-quarter earnings of more than $ 1 billion .
Bank of America 's $ 292 million loss was the second-largest charge for the quarter and was spread across its global banking and markets divisions .
That drove the bulk of loan-loss provisions in both units in the fourth quarter , a sign of both how large the Steinhoff loss was -- and how healthy the rest of the units ' portfolios were by contrast .
Citigroup had the highest charge , described as up to $ 370 million .
The losses hit banks so quickly and broadly that many analysts have brushed off the charges as a one-time occurrence that is n't indicative of broader underwriting problems .
Still , Bank of America is looking to see how the exposure to Steinhoff came to be and how the bank can avoid similar problems in the future , the people familiar with the matter said .
Citigroup , Goldman Sachs , HSBC and Nomura put together the original loan to Mr. Wiese .
Those banks sold off large chunks of their exposure to several other banks , including Bank of America .
The loan was made to a vehicle controlled by Mr. Wiese in September 2016 to help him fund a Steinhoff capital-raising needed to pay for one of its many acquisitions .
Mr. Wiese 's vehicles pledged 628 million shares -- at that point worth $ 3.175 billion -- as collateral against the loan .
In essence , Mr. Wiese borrowed against his Steinhoff shares to buy more Steinhoff shares .
Such stock-based lending had been booming across the banking industry due to what was until recent days a long , low-volatility stock rally and the loans ' light capital requirements .
Bank of America , which experienced major losses and fines in connection with the financial crisis , has become much more conservative in recent years across its businesses .