I Still Ca n't Believe Juno Therapeutics Spent $ 46.4 Million on This Failed Drug
A costly learning exercise .
In March , Juno Therapeutics announced that it was ending development of JCAR015 after five patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( ALL ) died from cerebral edema -- brain swelling -- in its phase 2 clinical trial .
The lethal side effect made it unlikely the treatment could get approved , despite extremely strong efficacy data .
After a review of the data , the company said it thought there were protocol modifications and process improvements that would hopefully make JCAR015 safer , but those changes would require Juno to go back to phase 1 .
Since the biotech has other drug candidates to treat ALL , Juno made a decision with its partner Celgene that it would be best to shelve JCAR015 and focus on the other ALL therapies .
All told , the biotech spent $ 46.4 million on the failed drug , which could end up being a little higher depending on wrap-up costs .
The perils of an unproven technology  ( maybe )
JCAR015 was Juno 's lead CAR-T cell therapy , a relatively new type of cancer treatment in which patient 's T-cells are taken out of a patient 's body , treated so that they 're trained to attack the cancer cells expressing a specific protein , and then put back into the patient .
Kite Pharma and Novartis have gotten their CAR-T treatments past phase 3 without showing troubling side effects , albeit in a different type of blood cancer .
Juno is testing the target of JCAR015 , a protein called CD19 , with another CAR-T in patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma NHL , so it probably is n't the target specifically .
And Juno is testing a CAR-T in pediatric ALL , where the company has n't seen a problem with cerebral edema .
In the end , the demise of JCAR015 was probably an unlucky combination of frail patients , the pre-treatment used to get patients ' bodies to accept the trained T-cells , and an overactive treatment .
Biotech is certainly a risky sector , but that risk is intensified when the underlying technology has n't been proven to work .
In this case , however , considering Kite Pharma 's and Novartis ' success , it might be that Juno just got unlucky more than anything else .
Righting the ship
At this point , JCAR015 is only a setback that does n't look like it 'll bring down the entire ship .
Juno has 11 treatments further back in the pipeline that use CAR-T or T Cell Receptor TCR , a related technology for targets that are inside the tumor cell .
Investors will get a look at how two of the early stage programs , JCAR017 and JCAR014 , are working at the American Society of Clinical Oncology ASCO meeting next month .
At ASCO , Juno will present phase 1 data for a trial testing JCAR017 in patients with NHL that have failed other treatments .
There will also be a presentation on the safety of JCAR014 , which will hopefully give investors confidence that JCAR015 's side effects are specific to that treatment and not an issue with the entire platform technology .