Celgene 's Stock May Be Incredibly Overvalued Right Now -- Here 's Why
Celgene 's long thesis might be unraveling .
Celgene has long garnered one of the richest valuations among large-cap biotechs , and for good reason .
The long and short of it is that Celgene has been able to post industry-leading levels of revenue growth year after year thanks to its unmatched ability to churn out new blockbuster products and key line extensions for medicines already on the market .
Turning to specifics , Celgene sports a dominant multiple myeloma franchise headlined by its megablockbuster Revlimid , and it has rapidly transformed the inflammatory disease drug , Otezla , into a blockbuster product as well .
Because of the company 's stellar track record in the clinic , though , the market apparently took management at its word back in 2015 , when it said that it planned to nearly double the company 's total revenues by 2020 .
Unfortunately , this rosy long-term outlook is starting to fall apart at the seams for two key reasons .
Reason No. 1 : Celgene 's foray into adoptive cell therapy has n't gone as planned
In June 2015 , Celgene announced a $ 1 billion-plus collaboration and investment agreement with Juno Therapeutics to develop adoptive cell therapies for cancer and autoimmune diseases .
Because of the size of this deal , along with Celgene agreeing to certain lock-up provisions on its share ownership in Juno , most onlookers assumed this research partnership was simply a prelude to a full-on buyout later down the road .
After all , a successful line of genetically modified cellular therapies would give Celgene a nearly insurmountable competitive moat in the high-value blood cancer market .
Nevertheless , it 's starting to look like Celgene backed the wrong horse in this race .
Although Celgene and Juno are rapidly advancing the chimeric antigen receptor T cell or CAR-T JCAR017 into pivotal stage studies for relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma that could lead to its approval by perhaps next year , Juno remains well-behind rivals Kite Pharma and Novartis from a development standpoint .
The short version is that Juno 's setbacks with its former lead CAR-T candidate JCAR015 have put it into the unenviable position of probably being last to market among the major adoptive cell therapy companies -- namely , Juno , Kite , and Novartis .
That does n't mean JCAR017 will be a commercial failure , but it 'll probably have a much harder time gobbling up market share right out of the gate .
To counteract this late start , Juno is betting on JCAR017 transforming into a best-in-class therapy with a far cleaner safety profile than its would-be competitors .
But there 's a good reason Juno 's stock is only trading at 3.7 times its last stated cash position -- despite this massive financial backing from a biotech heavyweight and a pipeline chock-full of potential mega-blockbusters .
Reason No. 2 : Ozanimod might not live up to the hype after all
When Celgene bought out Receptos for a measly $ 7.2 billion in 2015 and added the experimental S1P immunomodulating drug , ozanimod , to its pipeline , it appeared that the biotech had gotten an absolutely fantastic deal .
Ozanimod 's peak sales across its first three lead indications -- relapsing multiple sclerosis RMS , ulcerative colitis , and Crohn 's disease -- are expected to possibly exceed a whopping $ 6 billion .
As ozanimod 's late-stage clinical program in RMS has progressed , though , these peak sales estimates are starting to look unrealistic .
Getting to the point , Celgene recently reported that ozanimod met its primary goal in a second late-stage trial for RMS .
But the pooled dataset across the drug 's clinical program failed to provide evidence of a significant improvement on disability compared to Biogen 's injected drug Avonex .
The key issue to understand is that the multiple sclerosis MS landscape has been evolving at breakneck pace over the last few years .
Ozanimod , for instance , was expected to become the next major advancement among oral MS medicines , where it would compete chiefly against Novartis ' similar medication Gilenya .
Without a clear-cut disability benefit , though , ozanimod may have trouble laying claim to a best-in-class moniker that 's going to be critical to grabbing market share away from other oral MS medications that are already deeply entrenched .
That 's a big deal because ozanimod is expected to do most of the heavy lifting in terms of boosting Celgene 's top line over the next few years .
Is Celgene overvalued ?
Celgene still has a number of other avenues via which to potentially reach its lofty revenue growth projections , but there 's no doubt that this once-straightforward path has taken some unexpected twists and turns over the last six months .
Truth be told , Celgene 's proven commercial network might be able to overcome ozanimod 's lack of a disability benefit and go on to steal market share away from both Biogen 's Avonex and Novartis ' Gilenya .
Ozanimod , after all , still has a chance at beating both of these drugs on the safety front .
Additionally , it also would n't be all that surprising if Celgene and Juno are able to make up for lost ground with JCAR017 .
JCAR017 is expected to be more potent than either of Kite or Novartis ' initial CAR-T therapies -- and it come with a cleaner safety profile as well .
The point is that Celgene 's sky-high growth prospects are no longer as solid as they once were , even a few months ago .
And that 's perhaps reason enough to wait for a more attractive entry point before buying shares of this pricey biotech stock .