Why Celgene is Bucking Biotech Weakness Today
A Leerink upgrade has sent Celgene 's shares higher today , even as its peers slip .
Big biotech stocks have been under pressure today , but not Celegene , which was upgraded by Leerink today .
Gilead Sciences GILD has fallen , while Amgen has decline , Biogen is off , and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals has dropped .
But Celgene ?
It 's gained 1.5 % to $ 122.47 .
Leerink 's Geoffrey Porges and Bradley Canino explain why they upgraded Celgene to Outperform from Market Perform :
''
We are upgrading Celgene to Outperform based on the stock 's discounted valuation , our existing price target , our above-consensus estimates , expected positive trajectory for Q2 , and imminent pipeline validation events in the second half of 2017 .
Our revenue estimates for the 2017-2019 period for Celgene are 1-5 % above current consensus , and our EPS estimates are 2-6 % higher .
Using our estimates , by mid-2018 Celgene would be trading at an FY2 2019 earnings multiple of 10.6 x , and a revenue multiple of 4.9 x , which would put it at the very bottom of both the large cap biotech and pharma groups .
Assuming operating results rebound in Q2 , and continue in line with our forecast , we believe these multiples are unlikely to become so depressed .
Instead , we see the stock 's multiple recovering in Q3 towards a more growth-appropriate range , and we also anticipate significant upward revisions to consensus expectations in Q3 , after estimates declined on a predictably weak Q1 .
This upgrade is also consistent with our positive view of the outlook for stocks in the large cap biopharmaceutical sector over the next three months , and with positive signals emerging from Celgene 's frenzy of pipeline investments over the last 5 years .
We are not prepared to declare that Celgene has filled the gap created by Revlimid 's future loss of market exclusivity , but neither are we inclined to punish the company for the tremendous success of its flagship product .
''
Neither , it seems , is the market .