Waltham-based Dragonfly inks collaboration with Celgene , bags $ 33M
Dragonfly Therapeutics , a 20-employee Waltham biotech co-founded by the head of the Koch Institute at MIT , has struck a collaboration deal with Celgene Corp. to develop drugs that mobilize the immune system to fight blood cancers .
Dragonfly said Monday it will receive $ 33 million upfront in the deal , plus undisclosed potential milestone payments and royalties .
New Jersey-based Celgene , meanwhile , gets an exclusive option to in-license global rights for up to four drugs targeting acute myeloid leukemia , multiple myeloma and other blood cancers .
The announcement comes one month after Dragonfly said it had raised an undisclosed round from Celgene 's Swiss affiliate and a handful of family office investors , including members of the Walt Disney family .
Dragonfly was founded in 2015 , the brainchild of three prominent figures in biotech : Koch Institute head Tyler Jacks , entrepreneur Bill Haley and University of California at Berkeley cancer researcher David Raulet .
The company is one of many in Massachusetts pursuing so-called immuno-oncology drugs , which seek to harness the immune system 's natural ability to thwart cancer .
Most such drugs use T-cells , but Dragonfly wants to use a kind of white blood cell , dubbed a `` natural killer '' or NK cell .
The company says that its proprietary technology can bind the proteins on the surface of cancer cells to the proteins on the NK cells .
By creating a `` bridge '' between the two , the NK cells can directly attack the cancer cells , while also signaling to other T-cells to join in the fight .
`` Celgene is a preeminent biopharmaceutical company with a demonstrated history of recognizing disruptive science that may lead to new treatment options for patients with cancer , '' Haney said in a statement Monday .
`` We look forward to a successful collaboration . ''
Dragonfly recently moved to Waltham from LabCentral , a shared lab space in Cambridge .