Chipotle CFO says ` we were losing our edge ' even before E.coli outbreaks
As Chipotle bounces back from the company 's 2015 E.coli outbreaks with very strong earnings , CFO Jack Hartung said that the company 's priorities were botched before the scare .
`` Even before the crisis , we were losing our edge in terms of what it takes to run a great restaurant , and we 're getting that edge back , '' Hartung told '' Mad Money '' host Jim Cramer on Wednesday .
The 18-month mark has passed since the crisis -- Cramer 's timetable for a restaurant to turn around after a food-related illness issue -- and Hartung said the re-focused Chipotle is much better off .
`` We discovered that we lost our focus on just the basics of running a restaurant , the basics of making sure that the customer comes first , and the basics of training each of our crew members and our managers and assistant managers what it takes to run a great restaurant , what it takes to provide a great customer experience .
We 'd made things too complicated over the years , '' he said .
Watch the full segment here : The first thing management turned to in order to re-vamp the company was its list of priorities , where Hartung said there was too much value placed on company culture .
`` We were successful , and so , you know , success sometimes gets in the way of seeing reality , and the reality in our case was we focus on culture , which is a great thing .
Of course you need a great culture .
And we still value our people .
We value a special culture .
But we emphasized culture over and above the customer and over and above great training , '' he told Cramer .
When Chipotle 's leaders realized that , they instantly shifted their priorities to making sure restaurant employees revisited their basic training , from knowing how to identify perfectly cooked chicken to rolling the perfect burrito .
`` It 's just been in a few short months that we changed our focus , we changed how we measure success , we changed how we define success , and then we 've aligned all of our incentives around this new definition of success , '' Hartung explained .
The company also ousted its former co-CEO Marty Moran , leaving founder and CEO Steve Ells at the helm , which Hartung said reflected the fast-casual chain 's changing outlook .
`` When we made the change , we did n't say goodbye to culture .
What we said was let 's have culture be in the right balance , in the right balance of making sure we have great people who are well trained who are focused on the customer .
And we had that balance out of order , '' he said .
`` And when we re-balanced things and we defined success based on the customer , based on training , our teams responded really , really quickly . ''
Now , Chipotle 's customer satisfaction measures are improving month to month on every single count , and some stores in the central United States are seeing even better traffic than they were before the incidents .
`` I think the best sign that this is working is not just the customer satisfaction scores , of course , but also our turnover at the manager level is as low as it 's been in nine years .
So our managers are voting by saying , ` I believe in where Chipotle 's going , I know what success looks like , ' '' Hartung said .
`` They 're reaching success at a faster level than they ever have before , and so we think that 's a great sign in a matter of just a few months . ''