Why You 're Smart to Buy Chipotle
The company has suffered , but the things that once made it great are all still there .
The public overreacted to Chipotle 's E. coli scandal .
Yes , hundreds of people got sick , and panic in the immediate aftermath was not unwarranted , but the length of time people stayed away was extreme .
The Mexican chain 's problems began in July 2015 but escalated with a nine-state E. coli outbreak in December 2015 .
At the time , consumers became worried that they too would get sick if they ate at Chipotle and began to stay away .
The company saw its sales plummet , its stock price fall , and consumer trust in the brand drop dramatically .
In many ways , the negative backlash was magnified by the fact that the chain had always held its food up as better than what its rivals offered .
When you use the tagline `` Food with Integrity , '' you 're not telling consumers you 're immune from problems , but it seems clear that some of the public took it that way .
Even though Chipotle took aggressive steps to address the food safety concerns , including creating new procedures and closing for an afternoon to train staff , consumers stayed away in 2016 .
For the full year , the company posted a 13.3 % drop in revenue and a comparable-store sales decline of 20.4 % , and earnings per share EPS fell to $ 0.77 , down from $ 15.10 the prior year .
Get ready for a comeback
Not long after the chain 's October E. coli outbreak , I wrote a piece predicting its eventual comeback .
I noted at the time that Burger King had recovered fairly quickly from a 2013 scandal where a supplier it was using was selling it hamburger patties laced with horse meat .
Yum !
Brands Taco Bell also bounced back rapidly from a Salmonella outbreak that sickened 68 people in 10 states in 2011 .
Those stores were both big news , and the scandals ' impacts were short-lived .
I expected the same thing to happen in the case of Chipotle , but my timing was off .
In this case , consumers held a grudge , and the food-safety scandal affected results for over a year .
As you can see on the chart above , though , after a long post-scandal period of dropping , Chipotle stock has begun to recover .
That 's because consumers have begun to forgive or perhaps forget , and all of the reasons the company was once an industry leader have come back into focus .
Consumers are returning to Chipotle .
How is Chipotle doing ?
The chain has lapped its bad year and will be facing easier comps for 2017 .
That paid off in Q1 , when the company reported a 28.1 % jump in revenue , a 17.8 % increase in comparable-store sales , and EPS almost doubling to $ 1.60 from $ 0.88 in the same quarter a year ago .
`` 2017 is off to a strong start , as our restaurant managers and teams are energized by our renewed focus on the customer , '' said CEO Steve Ells in the earnings release .
It 's important to note that Chipotle has not merely increased its focus on food safety , it has also invested heavily in technology in order to improve customer service in its restaurants .
Ells celebrated that in his remarks as well : By simplifying the focus in our restaurants to only those elements that lead to a great guest experience , our operations have improved every single month , which gives us confidence that we are on our way to achieve our mission to ensure that great food made with whole unprocessed ingredients is accessible to everyone .
The chain forecasts that full-year comparable-store sales will grow in the high single-digits .
In addition , Chipotle expects to add 195-210 new locations in 2017 .
Chipotle is a buy
While its stock has begun to recover , Chipotle shares remain at a heavy discount .
The company paid the price for its E. coli issues , which were perhaps magnified by the hubris of its tagline and the scrutiny of the internet era , but it has emerged a stronger restaurant chain .
Before the scandal , Chipotle had create a category where consumers paid more for fast-food because of the perception of value created by higher quality .
The company still offers that .
It has better , fresher food than its fast-food rivals , and equal or better than its fast-casual competitors .
Post-scandal , the company has also upped its technology game , adding app-based ordering and a second production line to serve those orders in many locations .
It may not be a steady rise back to the heights the company once reached , but Chipotle did not stop being a compelling restaurant chain just because some people got sick .
The company has put its problems behind it , and people have begun coming back , Eventually , along with the continued evolution of the brand , that should mean Chipotle will go back to being the strong performer it was before the E. coli scandal .