Chipotle Names Scott Boatwright Chief Restaurant Officer
Chipotle Mexican Grill ( CMG ) announced that it has hired Scott Boatwright as chief restaurant officer , a position where he will work with the company 's senior restaurant leadership team to oversee restaurant operations for Chipotle 's nearly 2,300 North American restaurants .
Boatwright comes to Chipotle from Arby 's Restaurant Group , where he served as senior vice president of operations .
He joins Chipotle effective May 30 .
`` Continuing to focus on providing the very best guest experience is one of our top priorities , '' said Steve Ells , founder , chairman and CEO at Chipotle .
`` Scott 's proven accomplishments elevating the guest experience will help us accelerate the momentum we have seen so far in 2017 . ''
Boatwright began his career at Arby 's in 1997 and held a variety of leadership and executive positions during his tenure with the company .
Most recently , as senior vice president for Arby 's , he was responsible for the success and performance of nearly 2,000 franchised and company-owned restaurants across 22 states .
Specifically , he was responsible for operational standards , building and developing teams , delivering an excellent guest experience , and strategic planning to support the company 's overall annual operating plan .
`` Chipotle is a remarkable brand and one that has redefined what a fast food experience can be , '' said Boatwright .
`` The company has reshaped the category and paved the way for a new generation of restaurants .
I 'm thrilled to join Chipotle at a time when there is considerable opportunity ahead to impact food culture and improve the way people eat . ''
In his new position at Chipotle , Boatwright will work closely with Chipotle restaurant support officers Gretchen Selfridge and Mike Duffy to oversee restaurant operations , including enhancing the guest experience , developing and leading field leadership teams , developing strong teams inside the restaurants , and enhancing operational efficiency .
Boatwright holds a Master 's Degree in Business Administration from the Robinson College of Business at Georgia State University .
With his new role at Chipotle , Boatwright will work from the company 's Denver headquarters and will report directly to Ells .