Costco makes gains despite retailer gloom with upbeat earnings
Costco bucked the weakness that hit many bricks-and-mortar retailers at the start of this year , with stronger-than-expected profits and sales , boosting its stock price .
The wholesale chain said profits in the quarter that ended on May 7 rose to $ 700m , or $ 1.59 a share , compared with $ 545m , or $ 1.24 a share , in the year-ago period late on Thursday .
Excluding a one-time item , earnings per share of $ 1.40 topped Wall Street estimates by 9 cents .
Shares in Costco rose 1.8 per cent to $ 177.86 on Friday afternoon , up 11.1 per cent for the year .
The upbeat like-for-like sales figures -- altered where necessary so that a correct comparison can be made with a previous period -- stand in stark contrast with the gloomy results disclosed by a number of other retailers in the first months of 2017 .
Department stores in particular had a tough go at it as consumers increasingly shun shopping malls .
Costco , which operates 732 warehouses , including 510 in the US , differs from many retailers because it runs a membership model that has remained robust , guaranteeing income .
One way the store draws consumers in is by operating on-site gas stations , said John Brick , an analyst at Morningstar , with the ability to buy items in bulk -- ranging from oatmeal to T-shirts -- generally reducing costs to customers and further insulating it from the growing threat of online shopping .
`` They have a loyal membership base with their annual membership , '' he said .
`` They are really Amazon proof and ecommerce proof because of the value proposition supported by bulk offering and fuel sales .
Consumers find value in that . ''
Comparable-store sales , a key metric for retailers , climbed 5 per cent , better than the 4 per cent rise that analysts had forecast .
In the US , Costco 's biggest market , like-for-like sales rose 6 per cent .
Meanwhile , total revenues increased 8 per cent to $ 28.2 bn , shy of analyst forecasts of $ 28.5 bn .
On June 1 Costco will raise membership fees 10 per cent , which analysts expect will further boost the company .
`` They have done this in the past and the renewal rates have historically not been harmed , '' said Mr Brick .
`` It 's a big part of our thesis . ''
By close of trading in New York , the S&P 500 clocked a new record high , buoyed by large-cap technology shares .
For the week , the benchmark rose 1.4 per cent with the S&P technology sector now up nearly 20 per cent so far this year .
Elsewhere , shares in electronics retailer GameStop fell 5.9 per cent to $ 22.22 after it left its annual outlook unchanged on expectations of continued weakness in software and mobile sales , despite better than expected Nintendo Switch sales .
While Nintendo 's new console lifted shares in rival retailer Best Buy to an all-time high on Thursday , investors remained concerned over GameStop 's profitability in the face of declining video game sales , both used and new .
Sales in Switch , which comes with concerns about availability and new games in the pipeline , will not be enough to raise total earnings , according to analysts .
Instead GameStop on Thursday evening reiterated its full-year earnings-per-share guidance of $ 3.10 to $ 3.40 , with comparable sales either flat or falling as much as 5 per cent .
`` Switch was the driver of the increase in hardware sales , '' said Robert Lloyd , the company 's chief financial officer .
`` Consumer demand has been very strong and we 've consistently and quickly sold out of our allocations . ''
He added that `` as of today , we do not have complete insight into the total number of units we can expect in Q2 '' and that new software sales `` will face a difficult comparison '' to the popular games that came out last year .