Costco Adds Fresh Breads From Bakery Spurned By Starbucks
Today 's the day , Thursday , that Costco releases its third-quarter earnings .
It 's the first we 'll see if there 's any impact , yet , from the company 's new Visa cards , its new membership fees , and its renewed interest in online sales .
Not known , of course , is what effect any `` border tax '' will have on Costco prices , let alone sales .
But in the meantime , a brief trip down memory lane .
Remember a few years back , 2012 , when Starbucks spent $ 100 million in cash to acquire a quirky Bay Area bakery chain called La Boulange ?
Founded by Frenchman Pascal Rigo , a baker from Bordeaux , La Boulange was a sweet romance while it lasted , promises of diamond rings and five-star hotels well , a national rollout at least , but Rigo kept hoping Starbucks would do more to promote its food program .
`` Why not tell the world ? ''
Rigo kept asking .
He 's particularly proud of his 230-calorie breakfast sandwich , sold for $ 3.45 .
`` This is great food ! ''
During his 30-month tenure at Starbucks , he put freezers and convection ovens into 12,000 stores around the country .
`` A genuinely great company , '' is how Rigo describes his stint , but , for whatever reason , Starbucks did n't move fast enough and Rigo , an entrepreneur at heart , grew impatient .
So he parted ways with the Mermaid and took back five of his original bakeries , changing their name to La Boulangerie .
Starbucks , for its part , was soon seduced by Princi , a sultry chain of Italian bakeries .
We 'll be seeing and tasting her stuff in the Mermaid 's US stores next year .
Rigo took time out for a quick fling with Munchery a meal delivery venture ; then he started scaling up his bakery operations again .
Now , in one of those odd twists of commerce , Costco another Seattle-based retailer is going to start carrying La Boulangerie 's products .
According to industry reports , Costco will sell its packaged brioche and croissant rolls in 12 northern California stores .
It 's not easy being an affordable yet high-quality brand .
a Boulangerie executive told Fortune , `` We do n't want to be a luxurious brand that people can not afford , '' the spokesman said .
In fact , Rigo 's goal is not artisanal baking but `` better food at scale . ''
Rigo took back his original 40,000-square-foot production facility in the Bay Area for his venture .
He plans to expand La Boulangerie to stores across the country and even in France independent mini-bakeries called La P'tite Boulangerie , starting on the Riviera .
He could also partner with other retailers in addition to the Costco project .