Chevron 's Management Looks Like It 's Changing Its Capital Spending Habits
These management quotes hint at how the company will spend money over the next several years .
It 's been close to a decade , but one of Chevron 's signature projects -- Gorgon LNG -- is up and running .
Now Chevron does n't have to worry about pouring tens of billions of dollars into this project , the company can really change its capital allocation decisions and adapt to the changing realities of the current oil and gas market .
Some of those decisions were on full display during the company 's most recent conference call .
Management continues to hint at where it will and wo n't spend its cash over the next several years .
Here 's a selection of quotes from the company 's most recent conference call to give investors a better idea of the direction Chevron 's management intends to go in the coming years .
On track to meet long stated goal
For the last several years , Chevron 's stated promise to investors was that it would be cash neutral in 2017 regardless of oil prices .
In their mind , cash neutral meant that all of its capital spending and dividend obligations could be met with cash from operations .
According to CFO Patricia Yarrington , Chevron is on track to meet that goal
`` We intend to be cash balanced in 2017 at $ 50 Brent prices , and this slide demonstrates that we are nicely on our way to delivering that . ''
First quarter 2017 net cash generation of $ 900 million incorporates the impacts of growing operating cash flow , reduced capital spend and proceeds from asset sales .
Operating cash flow reflects improved realizations and high-margin volume growth .
Perhaps I 'm nitpicking , but meeting that stated goal with $ 2.1 billion in asset sales -- 33 % of all cash coming in the door -- does n't seem like something that can continue in perpetuity .
Perhaps the one thing that can give investors promise is that Chevron had a sizable working capital build in the quarter , which lowered cash from operations .
If the company can finish bringing some assets online and wind down those capital builds , then it looks like it has a shot at meeting this goal without asset sales .
The powerhouse that is the Permian
Every oil & gas producer that has even the smallest amount of acreage in the Permian Basin is going to talk about it on their conference call , and Chevron is no different .
Typically a company like Chevron is going to get its major production growth from megaprojects like LNG export facilities and offshore platforms .
According to Steve Green , President of Chevron Asia Pacific Exploration and Production Company , the Permian is likely going to underpin much of Chevron 's growth over the next several years .
Our first quarter 2017 production was approximately 150,000 barrels of oil-equivalent per day , up about 35,000 barrels of oil-equivalent per day from the first quarter 2016 .
In March , we gave you our forecasted Permian compound annual growth rate of 20 % to 35 % , and we 're currently well within that range .
We 're standing up our 12th rig , and our plan is to continue to add rigs at this pace , achieving 20 operated rigs by the end of 2018 .
In addition to our operated fleet , we 'll see our share of production from 13 gross non-operated rigs .
We continue to see efficiency gains and improved well performance , and we 're incorporating the learnings into our forward plans .
We intend to realize value through accelerated development and deliberate portfolio actions from the 150,000 to 200,000 acres we have identified as candidates for swaps , leases or sales .
This is n't that surprising , really .
Last quarter , management said it foresees shale comprising 25 % of overall production by the middle of the next decade .
While Chevron does have shale assets elsewhere , the Permian continues to be the center of its shale plan .
Wavering about and LNG expansion ?
For more than a decade , the Gorgon and Wheatstone LNG facilities have been Chevron 's defining investments .
That has n't always been a compliment , though , as Gorgon is synonymous with the largesse of megaprojects , cost overruns , and delays .
Now that all three trains at Gorgon are operational and Wheatstone 's Train 1 should be up and running in the coming weeks , much of these issues will be forgotten over time .
That is , of course , until the company starts to think about expanding the facilities as originally anticipated .
When asked about the timeline to invest in expanding these facilities , Green gave a non-answer that could be rather revealing .
As far as expansion trains at Gorgon and Wheatstone , there are a lot of factors that go into that .
Our first priority is to get these assets up , stable , working as intended and capture the value from the investment we 've made .
At that point then , it will be -- that decision , like any major capital project , will be a function of the market and the market 's appetite for it and how those individual investments will compete in our portfolio at that time we FID them .
Typically these companies are quick to highlight that they want to make those expansions happen quickly , but it looks like Chevron is undecided about the future .
Part of that could come down to negotiations with its partners -- ExxonMobil and Royal Dutch Shell are equity partners in Gorgon -- but it could also be that Chevron is a little gun shy about expanding its LNG presence .
The company has also dragged its feet regarding a final investment decision for its Kitimat LNG facility in Western Canada .
Chevron got one thing right and one thing wrong when it gave Gorgon the green light .
It properly understood the fast-growing demand for LNG , but it did n't foresee supply growing as fast as it has .
Much of that has to do with the U.S. 's transformation from an LNG importer to one of the world 's largest exporters in a decade 's time .
This changing market dynamic is going to drastically impact Chevron 's investment decisions for LNG .
The priorities for any excess cash Let 's assume , for a minute , that Chevron is able to meet its stated goal of being cash neutral at $ 50 a barrel .
What happens when oil prices go above $ 50 ?
Yarrington was asked this specific question during the call and how her finance team at Chevron views its priorities for excess cash .
Here 's what she had to say .
The first priority is going to be given to growing the dividend when we feel cash flow and earnings can support it for the long term .
And by that , I mean in perpetuity .
Secondly , we look at future additional investment opportunities that we 've got because we do need to continue to grow future revenue streams .
And then we look at the balance sheet .
It is important for us to continue to have a strong balance sheet .
And what you saw in this quarter is really a flex in our commercial paper program , and that 's part of why we have a commercial paper program is to take flex like this .
So all of those are important to us .
We do balance that .
We 're at 24 % debt ratio , which is an OK place to be , I would say .
But over time , I 'd like to see us move a little bit lower in the debt profile when cash flow permits us to do that .
Yarrington also emphasized that maintaining an AA credit rating was a key target for the finance team , so you have to imagine that debt reduction and strengthening the balance sheet are going to get some attention in the coming quarters if it can generate excess cash .
The only other question investors need to think about is what happens when oil prices do n't stay above that $ 50 a barrel threshold .
Tyler Crowe owns shares of ExxonMobil .