Chevron 's 10-K Puts the Permian on a Pedestal
Shale helped the oil major replace reserves at a healthy pace last year .
Chevron Corp. is not shy about touting its 1.7 million acres of real estate in the prolific Permian basin , the center of the U.S. tight-oil boom .
And its annual filing , which dropped late Thursday , showed just how big the basin figures in one important respect : reserves .
Replacing reserves is an obsession for oil majors ; it 's hard to be an oil major for long if you do n't replenish what you pump .
According to its 10-K , Chevron replaced 161 percent of its production organically -- before factoring in purchases and disposals -- a healthy figure after several pretty mediocre years :
Booked Up
Chevron 's additions to proved reserves took a quantum leap in 2017 , relative to production
For that , Chevron can thank the U.S. and its Permian position in particular .
The company 's home operations added almost 6 cubic feet of natural gas to proved reserves for every one produced and almost four barrels of oil for every one pumped out .
Home Advantage
Chevron 's U.S. operations powered the big jump in the company 's reserve-replacement ratio in 2017 Note : Organic reserve-replacement ratio .
By extension , Chevron can also thank OPEC , the Russians and a handful of other countries cutting supply and thereby pushing average benchmark U.S. oil prices up by about $ 7.40 a barrel last year .
Roughly a third of the additions last year were revisions to existing reserves , where oil and gas prices play a significant role ( because they can make reserves economically viable or unviable at any given year-end ) .
And a better price environment encourages oil and gas companies to get back to work ; Chevron drilled or participated in 310 wells in the Permian basin last year versus just 201 in 2016 .
Consequently , it added almost as many barrels of oil equivalent to its U.S. proved reserves via extensions and discoveries in 2017 as it did in the prior three years combined .
This was important , especially , in the crucial half of the reserves equation : oil .
Chevron 's additions to lower-value natural gas reserves were split fairly evenly between the U.S. and international areas .
But in liquids , it was definitely a case of America first :
Texas Tea
Chevron 's replacement of oil production in 2017 was dominated by the U.S. Note : Additions are organic reserve replacement , excluding purchases and disposals .
This shift toward home is n't confined to Chevron .
Exxon Mobil Corp. has n't filed its 10-K yet , so details on reserves are scarce .
Still , we know from its announcement earlier this month that about 800 million -- or almost a third of the 2.7 billion barrels of oil equivalent added to its proved reserves in 2017 -- came from its unconventional operations in the U.S. , mainly in the Permian basin .
Chevron , however , has an advantage here .
It has been established in the Permian basin for a long time and consequently pays low or no royalties on its acreage there .
Exxon , meanwhile , has been buying its way into the oil world 's equivalent of Manhattan real estate , in part to help fill a project pipeline looking somewhat thin due to sanctions on Russia .
Barclays estimates Exxon 's average royalty rate in the Permian at about 20 percent , versus less than 10 percent for Chevron .
Both companies have yet to fully demonstrate they can make the capital-intensive business of shale development work for a supermajor 's needs read : dividends .
Chevron , however , would appear to have the edge in terms of taking those proved reserves and proving itself .