Chevron investors back off from climate change proposal
Investors have withdrawn a shareholder proposal calling for Chevron to report regularly on the risks it faces from policies to address climate change , after the oil group published an analysis of the issue .
The decision shows how investors concerned about climate risk are making uneven progress in their attempts to encourage US energy companies to discuss the outlook in more detail .
On Friday , a majority of votes cast at Occidental Petroleum 's annual meeting backed a similar call for the company to produce a regular report on climate risk , a result described as a `` turning point '' by supporters of the proposal .
The large European oil companies have all agreed to publish analysis along these lines , but US companies have so far generally proved harder to shift .
Wespath Investment Management , which handles funds for institutions affiliated with the United Methodist church , and Hermes Investment Management of the UK , had filed a proposal for Chevron 's annual meeting on May 31 , calling for the company to publish an annual assessment of the potential impacts of climate policies on its operations .
Kirsty Jenkinson , managing director of sustainable investment at Wespath , said : `` If we had lost with a proposal on climate at Chevron , we could have lost some momentum . ''
She added that investors would keep talking to the company and its directors to encourage them to improve its climate-related disclosure .
In particular , the resolution asked Chevron to look at the impact of policies to keep the increase in global temperatures to the internationally agreed limit of 2C .
A similar proposal at last year 's meeting was backed by investors speaking for 41 per cent of Chevron 's shares .
In March , Chevron published an 18-page report , Managing Climate Change Risks : a perspective for investors , which looked at possible outcomes in different scenarios , including policies consistent with a 2C limit .
Wespath and Hermes criticised that report as providing only `` limited detail '' , and said it lacked `` substantive discussion of Chevron 's strategies '' , but agreed to accept it as a `` first step '' , and withdrew their proposal .
Ms Jenkinson said investors working on climate would later in the year discuss the best ways forward , including further shareholder proposals and engagement with board directors behind the scenes .
Wespath was also the co-lead filer of the successful proposal calling for regular climate reporting at Occidental .
Craig Rhines , the head of corporate engagement at Calpers , the California state pension fund that supported the resolutions there and at Chevron , said the vote at Occidental was `` an absolutely fantastic outcome '' that would give investors more information about the risks the company faced and how it was responding .
Shanna Cleveland of Ceres , a group that works with investors on environmental and social issues , added that regular reporting on climate risk also `` has an impact on the company 's thinking , even before it starts to have an effect on capital allocation and strategy '' .
The big prize for investors who are active on climate change is ExxonMobil , the largest listed oil group , which is voting on a similar resolution on climate reporting at its annual meeting , also on May 31 .
The company has argued against the proposal , saying it already has processes that `` sufficiently test the portfolio to ensure long-term shareholder value '' .