Chevron Shielded From $ 9 Billion Verdict
The U.S. Supreme Court left intact a ruling that protects Chevron Corp. from having to pay $ 8.6 billion in a decades-long battle over oil pollution in Ecuador , rebuffing an American lawyer who was found to have committed fraud in the South American country 's court .
The attorney , Steven Donziger , said a federal appeals court had exceeded its authority by letting Chevron use a U.S. racketeering law to block enforcement of the Ecuadorian award .
The appeals court said Donziger and his team of lawyers engaged in `` a parade of corrupt actions , '' culminating with a promise to pay a judge $ 500,000 to release a ghostwritten opinion as his own .
The rejection leaves Donziger and Ecuadorian plaintiffs in the case with fewer options for collecting the award , which the company has refused to pay .
Chevron does n't have any assets in Ecuador .
It 's the latest development in a legal saga that started in 1993 , when Donziger and other lawyers sued Texaco Inc. in New York , claiming the oil company contaminated a large swath of the Ecuadorian rainforest by filling hundreds of unlined waste pits with toxic , cancer-causing drilling materials .
Chevron later acquired Texaco and its potential liabilities .
The U.S. case was dismissed , forcing Donziger to refile it in Ecuador .
A court there eventually concluded Chevron was liable , ordering it to pay $ 8.6 billion .
Chevron says the judgment was the product of fabricated evidence , coercion and bribery .
The oil company said Donziger and his team blackmailed the judge into appointing their hand-picked expert to assess damages , then arranged to have the report written by an American consultant .
At the Supreme Court , the case tested the bounds of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act , a federal law Chevron invoked to try to block Donziger from collecting the judgment in the U.S. Donziger 's attorney , Deepak Gupta , said in court papers that the case marked the first time a federal appeals court had authorized that type of pre-emptive attack on a foreign damage award .
`` The decision sets federal courts down a path that they have never gone , '' Gupta wrote .
Chevron said there was nothing unprecedented about the lawsuit .
`` Chevron pleaded and proved a pattern of racketeering and fraud that reached well beyond the misconduct in the Ecuadorian proceedings , to include extensive activities in the United States and its courts and other federal agencies , '' the company argued .
The case is Donziger v. Chevron , 16-1178 .