Disney Earnings Give a Look at How ESPN Is Facing the Future
ESPN subscribers have been decreasing , but there are catalysts in the works for this important piece of Disney 's pie .
When most people think of Walt Disney , they picture Mickey Mouse in front of the Magic Kingdom .
When Wall Street analysts think of Disney , they might be more focused on ESPN 's SportsCenter .
That 's because while Disney is the dominant global movie studio ( with Disney , Pixar , Marvel , and Star Wars ) and a global theme park operator , the company still earns over half of its operating income from its media networks segment , where ESPN resides .
ESPN makes up the majority of the segment , and by my estimates , as much as 35 % of Disney 's total operating income .
That means just ESPN is just about as consequential as the parks & resorts  ( 19 % of operating income ) and the studio ( 16 % of operating income ) combined .
While the studio and parks & resorts segments are going gangbusters , ESPN is in some trouble due to the rise of cord-cutting ( revenue was up in the segment in the second quarter , but operating income was down ) .
The reason cord-cutting hits Disney so hard is that ESPN makes about 65 % of its money from affiliate fees , and the rest from advertising .
So while ratings might be stable for ESPN , if non-sports fans cut the cord , that will still hurt the network .
After Disney 's recent earnings report , the stock sold off about 2 % and it remains well below its 2015 highs , revealing the market 's uncertainty over that segment 's future , even as both the studio and the parks and resorts segments posted 20 % gains in operating income .
That is because the media segment posted a year-over-year decline in operating earnings of 3 % .
Whether it can come back is a matter of contention .
Let 's go through the opinions of both optimists and pessimists .
ESPN pessimists 
Bernstein 's Todd Juenger is a nonbeliever .
He notes that while ESPN is incredibly popular , not everybody is a sports fan .
With skinny bundles on the rise , Juenger recently told CNBC that people will increasingly be able to opt out of paying for ESPN .
Similarly , MoffettNathanson analyst Michael Nathanson said during the conference call , `` people are not tuning into SportsCenter the way maybe they used to in a predigital world . ''
It 's been estimated that ESPN has lost more than 12 million subscribers over the past six years , putting it around 88 million .
The pressure continued to be felt in the most recent quarter .
Disney CFO Christine McCarthy noted a `` slight change in the rate of subscription losses . ''
She also took care to say the `` magnitude of the change was less than half a point compared to what we experienced in the first quarter . ''
To me , that translates to `` sub loss rates accelerated by almost 0.5 % . ''
That 's a big problem , because the costs for all-important sports rights have skyrocketed , and a new , more expensive NBA contract just hit the network .
To help deal with its financial issues , ESPN decided last month to lay off what is reported to be 100 employees , including many highly paid on-air anchors .
ESPN optimists
Count Disney CEO Bob Iger as an ESPN optimist .
According to a transcript on Seeking Alpha , on the recent conference call , he stated :
`` The strength of the brand and consumer demand make ESPN extremely attractive to new platforms and services entering the market , which has led to ESPN content being featured on a growing array of over-the-top services , including Sling TV , Hulu , PlayStation Vue , DIRECTV and YouTube TV .
Consumer response to these offerings is very encouraging .
The substantial growth we 're already seeing makes us bullish on the future of these nascent offerings . ''
Iger also noted 23 million people had downloaded ESPN apps , and pointed to an ESPN-branded streaming service ( though likely less comprehensive than ESPN on TV ) through BAMTech rolling out later this year .
Regarding a full-on over-the-top ESPN service , Iger responded to an analyst 's question by saying ( emphasis mine ) : 
`` We do n't have plans right now to take ESPN as it is currently distributed on both new and traditional distributors and go direct with it .
Will that eventually happen ?
I think probably , but there are no plans right now to do that . ''
There are complications as it relates to our current relationships with distributors , and frankly , we do n't really feel that we 've got a great need to do that .
In addition to Iger , Morgan Stanley 's Ben Swinburne and UBS analyst Doug Mitchelson have been bullish on ESPN 's future .
Swinburne has pointed to new streaming bundles and the upcoming cycle of distributor contract negotiations .
Mitchelson noted on the conference call that after the June-ended quarter , ESPN 's big sports rights deals will be locked in through 2022 while all affiliate deals are coming up for renewal in the next five years .
Roughly a quarter of ESPN 's carriage contracts are said to be coming up for renewal in the next 18 months .
That means that as Disney renews contracts at what should be higher affiliate prices ( as fees have moved up even with cord-cutting ) most of that money will fall to the bottom line , which would help the segment swing back to profit growth .
Making sense of the sports giant
And price hikes are already happening .
Affiliate revenue in media networks increased 4 % in the second quarter , with seven points of the growth due to higher rates , offset by a three-point decline due to a subscriber decrease .
ESPN still seems to have pricing power , but only for its core audience .
The wider audience of non-sports fans is figuring out ways to avoid it .
The winner of the debate will likely rest on how many people ESPN will ultimately reach via both cable and over-the-top platforms when cord-cutting bottoms .
If subscriber losses slow , ESPN should be able to raise prices and manage some growth .
The affiliate renegotiations could also provide a boost .
But if subscriber losses continue to accelerate , price increases will only keep ESPN spinning its wheels in the years ahead .