Disney Stock Defies Ho-Hum Earnings
The media giant reports flat fiscal third-quarter results .
It 's also unveiling a consumer-direct streaming platform that could be a thorn in Netflix 's side .
Walt Disney is making waves .
The media giant spiced up its latest financial report by announcing that it will roll out its own consumer-to-direct streaming video service by early next year , a move that dealt an initial hit to Netflix as a popular hub of Disney content .
The fiscal third-quarter results were newsworthy , too , even as the top - and bottom-line results came in flattish .
Revenue of $ 14.238 billion was just 0.3 % lower than a year earlier , and adjusted earnings of $ 1.58 a share were 2 % less than a year earlier .
It 's a great big beautiful tomorrow Disney 's now on track to post its third consecutive fiscal year of declining revenue .
The top line has retreated in three of the past fourth quarters .
The news is n't necessarily any better on the bottom line , as net income has come in lower than the prior year in three of the past four quarters , too .
`` Reasonable growth at its theme parks and another period of holding steady with its media networks should be enough to offset the rough comparisons for its studio , '' I wrote over the weekend in previewing Tuesday afternoon 's prospects .
That 's pretty much what happened , except that double-digit growth at Disney 's theme-parks division was n't enough to offset all of the weakness everywhere else .
Media networks , Disney 's largest segment , experienced a 1 % dip in revenue as a 4 % uptick in its broadcasting business was n't enough to level out a 3 % slide in its larger media-networks arm .
There 's still weakness at ESPN , yet affiliate revenue there is still growing : Subscribers keep cutting the cord , but those who stick around are paying more .
ESPN 's rough spots were a dip in advertising , given its lower viewership rates , and the ever-increasing programming costs .
Overall , both broadcasting and media networks posted double-digit percentage declines in operating profit .
It 's not easy being a media giant these days .
Everyone knew that Disney 's studio segment , its third largest business , was going to be a pressure point .
It had an active slate of theatrical and home video hits last time around .
This time , the division 's revenue and operating profit plunged 16 % and 17 % , respectively .
Theme parks once again saved the day , with a 12 % spike in revenue and an 18 % surge in operating income .
The timing of the Easter and spring break holidays helped , but Disney 's international parks boosted results .
Disney was able to achieve attendance growth at its domestic parks despite fewer occupied room nights at its resort hotels .
Disney 's push for an online service that will find it pulling most -- but not all -- of its content from Netflix will be the headline fodder emerging from Tuesday 's report , but do n't forget the actual financials .
Disney may seem to be marching in place , but it 's never really standing still .
Rick Munarriz owns shares of Netflix and Walt Disney .