Disney Elects GM CEO Barra to Board Amid Iger Succession Hunt
- Directors looking for leader after 2019 contract expiration
- Automaker executive joins Facebook 's Sandberg as board member
Walt Disney Co. added General Motors Co. Chief Executive Officer Mary Barra to its board , bringing on one of the most prominent female executives in corporate America amid a hunt for a successor to CEO Robert Iger .
The appointment of Barra , 55 , is effective immediately , Burbank , California-based Disney said Thursday in a statement .
Her addition expands the board to 12 members .
Directors are working on finding a new CEO to eventually replace Iger , 66 , whose contract was extended earlier this year until July 2019 .
Barra brings experience helping GM , one of America 's most well-known companies , adapt to a changing technological landscape , including the advent of ride-share services and self-driving cars .
As a Disney board member , she 'll be called on to help Iger work through the threat to his TV and movie businesses brought by Netflix and other digital services .
U.S. companies have been under pressure to increase the role of women and minorities on their boards and top management .
With the addition of Barra , Disney 's board now features two of the highest-profile female executives in the country , since she 'll serve alongside Facebook Inc. Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg .
Susan Arnold of the Carlyle Group and Maria Elena Lagomasino , who runs her own financial advisory company , are Disney 's other female directors .
Monica C. Lozano stepped down last year under company guidelines that limit the service of directors to 15 years .
Robert Matschullat , Disney 's longest-serving board member , has been a director since December 2002 .
As GM 's chief , Barra maintains a low profile .
She is on the board of Stanford University , where she got her MBA , but does n't sit on any corporate boards since standing down as a director of General Dynamics Corp. earlier this year .
Barra was on President Trump 's Strategy & Policy Forum until its member CEOs all left en masse following his equivocal comments about the neo-Nazi rally in Charlottesville , Virginia .
She stayed on Trump 's forum even after the president pulled out of the Paris climate accord , a decision that led to Iger 's resignation from the group .