Euro Disney : DIS Gains Control , Plans to Delist
The Walt Disney Co. ( DIS ) has gained close to 100 % control of Euro Disney and can now move to delist the struggling theme park outside Paris .
As of Tuesday , the entertainment company owns more than 97 % of Euro Disney and said in a press release it will force a mandatory buyout and delisting of the stock under French market rules .
The move to delist Euro Disney ends what was a more than 20-year run as a standalone company .
The theme park has struggled to lure visitors and has needed at least three bailouts from its parent .
In February , Disney raised its stake into Euro Disney to 85.7 % via a deal with Prince Alwaleed bin Talal , the Saudi billionaire investor , and said it would take full control of the theme park .
In order to cut Euro Disney 's debt and improve its finances , it also said it would back a move to recapitalize as much as 1.5 billion euros .
As part of the deal , minority investors got 2 euros or $ 2.13 a share for their shares , marking a substantial premium .
Disneyland Paris opened in 1992 and has struggled for the majority of the time it has been operational .
Recent terror attacks in France has also hurt tourism overall .
The move to gain control of the Paris theme park comes at the entertainment company , under Chief Executive Bob Iger 's charge , is forging a deeper commitment to its resorts around the globe .
With the economies in Europe struggling , a spate of terrorist attacks creating fear and challenging business conditions , its international theme parks have been struggling .
The U.S. , however , is a different story .
There the company is pouring billions of dollars into its resorts , with a major Star Wars expansion coming to Disney World in Florida and Disneyland in California .
In late May , it opened its $ 500 million World of Avatar attraction that is already hugely popular with reports of four-hour lines surfacing .
The new addition was opened at its Animal Kingdom report near Orlando , Fla. , marking its largest expansion of a U.S.-based theme park in more than 10 years .
With Animal Kingdom typically a couple-of-hours type of resort it is hoping the addition will keep parkgoers there longer .
Disney also spent $ 5.5 billion for its park in Shanghai , which opened in June of 2016 .