Disney World 's Big Transformation Is 10 Days Away
Pandora -- The World of Avatar opens at Disney 's Animal Kingdom on May 27 , and there 's a lot riding on James Cameron 's franchise .
We 're now just 10 days away from the grand opening of Pandora -- The World of Avatar at Disney 's Animal Kingdom in Florida .
The theme park 's expansion will be a game-changing experience , ending the common complaint that it 's a `` half-day park '' once and for all .
The new Avatar-themed area is a gamble that Disney does n't typically make .
It does n't own James Cameron 's eco-friendly sci-fi franchise , and it 's at the mercy of Cameron and a rival studio to crank out promised sequels that have been delayed several times over the years .
However , most of the initial reviews from travel journalists and theme park bloggers that have been treated to sneak peeks have been gushing over the lush , bioluminescent landscape and the two new rides .
Advance previews for annual pass holders began this past weekend , and I 'm slated to kick the tires myself later this week .
Theme weaver
Memorial Day weekend is a busy travel period , but Central Florida will be more crowded than usual .
Pandora opens on May 27 , two days after Comcast NASDAQ : CMCSA debuts Universal Orlando 's Volcano Bay .
Unlike Comcast 's water park that still has construction crews toiling away on finishing touches and has yet to slate any previews for its three-park passholders , Pandora is clearly ready for the onslaught of summer travelers that will descend to Florida in the coming months .
Pandora is important , and not just because it 's the theme park giant 's most ambitious Disney World expansion since the actual opening of Animal Kingdom in 1998 .
The animal-themed park has struggled to keep crowds past sunset , and last summer 's push for nighttime entertainment that included an illuminated Jungle Book-themed riverfront show and street performers proved short-lived .
It 's going to be a different story now .
Disney has a better reviewed nighttime river show in place , and the bioluminescent nature of Pandora 's faux lushness will make it a popular hub after dark .
The park 's closing will be 11p.m. all summer long , with guests staying at a Disney resort hotel having access to the new land for an additional two hours beyond that .
Florida 's summertime weather can be cruel , subjecting tourists to humidity and scorching heat with a side of afternoon thunderstorms to cool them off .
Animal Kingdom 's biggest flaw has been the lack of air-conditioned respite .
There are a few indoor shows and attractions to soothe the experience , but there is just one fully enclosed ride at the park right now .
The addition later this month of the gentle Na`vi River Journey boat ride and the thrilling Flight of Passage flying banshee simulator triples the number of indoor rides at Disney 's Animal Kingdom .
Comcast is billing Volcano Bay as its third theme park , a gutsy call given the limited relative appeal of waterparks in general and the small size of the attraction itself .
Disney is n't going to the same chest-thumping extreme , but it knows that there 's a lot riding on Pandora .
Comcast has been closing the attendance gap since the 2009 debut of The Wizarding World of Harry Potter .
There was a time when this expansion was being presented as Disney 's counter to its rival 's Potter-themed boom , but it 's clear that we 'll have to wait until 2019 's Star Wars Land at Disney 's Hollywood Studios to scratch that itch .
However , Disney 's ability to fill its parks and hotels after a soft 2016 rests on the shoulders of Pandora 's success .
The clock is ticking , and for now it seems as if the crowds are coming .