Disney World and Universal Orlando Go Through Growing Pains
Disney opens Pandora and Universal Orlando debuts Volcano Bay , but both ambitious expansions have their initial setbacks .
In retrospect , it probably was n't the best idea for Disney and Comcast to roll out their most ambitious theme park expansions in years during the busy Memorial Day holiday weekend .
Comcast 's Universal Orlando officially opened Volcano Bay on Thursday , followed two days later by Disney World 's Pandora -- The World of Avatar at Disney 's Animal Kingdom .
The attractions proved magnetic to theme park buffs , but there were more than a few initial hiccups -- particularly at Volcano Bay , where closed attractions limited capacity and bar-raising virtual line technology failed to keep lines as short as promised .
Both theme park giants will eventually get it right , but the ultimate lesson here is that both additions would 've gotten off to smoother starts if they had opened at a time when Central Florida was n't already bursting at the seams with tourists .
Making a big splash
Construction crews were scrambling to piece Volcano Bay together well into the night in the days ahead of the May 25 opening , a good sign that the water park that Comcast is billing as Universal Orlando 's third theme park would n't be fully operational by the official opening day .
Disney World 's Avatar-themed expansion was better prepared for its primetime close-up -- hosting previews for passholders and media outlets in the two weeks leading up to Saturday 's official opening -- but it also had capacity and crowd control issues over the weekend .
Volcano Bay thrilled most guests at its grand opening , but a few key attractions including the lazy river , kid play areas , and a couple of slides were n't ready .
Most of those reluctant debutantes came online over the weekend , but some of the interactive features promised within the kid-friendly play areas and the lazy river 's cavern still were n't working .
However , the biggest initial shortcoming at Volcano Bay was the inability of its TapuTapu wearable to deliver a guest-pleasing virtual line experience .
Universal Orlando justified its premium pricing over the established area water parks -- including Disney 's own Blizzard Beach and Typhoon Lagoon -- with a wearable-tech solution that promised to keep guests out of long lines .
The chip-backed wristbands were fine , but the ability to reserve as many as two slides extended the return time on some of the more popular low-capacity slides to as long as five hours .
Some guests also complained that when their return times arrived that they were stuck waiting in lines for more than just a few minutes .
In short , it was a rough couple of days for the park 's guest services department .
Seeing red over blue people
Disney also had its customer satisfaction issues .
Folks on Saturday had to wait as long as two hours just to get into Pandora , and once inside , the peak waits for the two new rides ran as long as four hours apiece .
One can argue that it 's not Disney 's fault that Pandora -- The World of Avatar proved ridiculously popular .
It held up on its end of the bargain .
There was n't material downtime on either attraction the way that Disney experienced last summer with EPCOT 's Frozen Ever After , and the mobile ordering feature that it introduced at Pandora 's Satu ` li Canteen eatery worked without a hitch .
However , folks were still inconvenienced by falling for the hype .
It also did n't help that the long line just to get into Pandora was spent mostly under the scorching sun .
It 's going to be a huge summer for Central Florida .
Comcast 's new water park will get its act together , and hopefully green-light the expansion to add more attractions to help make its virtual lines more reasonable .
Disney will get better at handling Pandora crowds .
They do n't really have much of a choice .
Comcast and Disney will be making a ton of money this summer , but only if park guests leave happy enough to be kind on social media .