Disney : What 's Worth More Than a Movie Ticket ?
Premium video on demand could be coming providing big opportunities for media companies like Disney and Viacom , but also big risks .
Walt Disney 's ( DIS ) ESPN problem is well known , but the Wall Street Journal reminded its readers yesterday that there 's more to its cable business than the sports giant -- and those channels are struggling too .
The problems stem from consumers ' changing viewing habits -- as Disney acknowledged in the article -- and its worth remembering that T.V. is n't the only business that 's being disrupted .
Movies being hit too , as more viewers choose to watch online .
That has n't hit Disney , which has had an incredible run Star Wars , Marvel , and its live adaptations of cartoon classics , but it has impacted other studios .
The solution : Premium video on demand , say Morgan Stanley 's Benjamin Swinburne and team .
they explain why : What is the opportunity for the Media stocks ?
Premium video on demand P-VOD rental worth 2-3x more to studios than a movie ticket .
Overweights Lions Gate Entertainment ( LGF.A ) , Viacom ( VIAB ) , Disney , and Comcast ( CMCSA ) could benefit along with 21st Century Fox ( FOXA ) and Time Warner ( TWX ) from this $ 3-4bn market opportunity .
Americans spend ~ $ 11bn to go to the movies each year , and another $ 12bn on home video digital and physical rental/purchase , excluding subscription VOD -- a pie that is flat to declining due to increasing competition from the explosion in high quality TV led by OW Netflix ( NFLX ) .
P-VOD 's favorable economics to studios illustrate that collapsing the theatrical window is a risk worth taking .
The movie business is under more pressure than the market generally appreciates , with overall returns elevated by Disney 's unprecedented profits .
In fact , removing Disney , the remaining studios generated just ~ $ 1bn in EBITDA last year after absorbing estimated losses from Sony and Paramount - or roughly half the ~ $ 2bn in EBITDA earned by the three largest Exhibitors AMC Entertainment Holding ( AMC ) , Regal Entertainment Group ( RGC ) , and Cinemark Holdings ( CNK ) .
Shares of Walt Disney have fallen 1.4 % to $ 105.98 at 10:18 a.m. today , while Lions Gate Entertainment has declined 1.3 % to $ 27.77 , Viacom has dropped 1.7 % to $ 33.54 , and Comcast has ticked up 0.1 % to $ 38.40 .
AMC Entertainment Holding has tumbled 2.9 % to $ 22.52 , Regal Entertainment Group has slumped 1.5 % to $ 20.07 , and Cinemark Holdings is off 1.3 % at $ 38.03 .