This Hedge Fund Bought $ 250 Million of Disney Stock : Should You Buy , Too ?
This elite stock picker just loaded up on Disney shares , which reinforces that the media giant remains a buy today .
You do n't come to manage an estimated $ 24 billion in other investors ' money without establishing one of the best track records in the entire hedge-fund industry .
That 's exactly what famed hedge fund Viking Global Investors has done , outperforming traditional stock indices by several hundred percent since the turn of the millennium .
Though retail investors most likely ca n't access the brain trust that guides Viking 's investments , they can follow the movements of elite money managers through the quarterly 13-F reports they file with the SEC .
Case in point : According to its most recent filing , Viking has initiated a $ 250 million position in media giant The Walt Disney Company , proving that this longtime Fool favorite remains a fantastic stock for individual investors to own .
Who bought Disney shares ?
Viking is one of the world 's best-regarded stock-picking hedge funds .
The firm is led by Andreas Halvorsen , a former Norwegian special-forces commando and protege of legendary hedge-fund manager Julian Robertson .
Halvorsen struck out on his own , forming Viking in 1999 , and he largely employs the same long-short stock-picking strategy Robertson employed to make his firm Tiger Management one of the most successful hedge funds of all time .
Like the hedge-fund industry at large , Viking has struggled to sustain its performance of late .
A recent article in The Wall Street Journal detailed how the fund lost 4 % over the past year ; its five-year average performance remains 10.2 % .
The $ 250 million stake in Disney is Viking 's 23rd largest holding .
The investment took place at some point in Q4 2016 , as part of a realignment of the company 's portfolio .
In fact , the Disney stake ranked 13th in Viking 's portfolio in terms of the number of shares purchased during the quarter .
We do n't know at what point between Oct. 1 and Dec. 31 Viking initiated the stake .
Disney shares have risen about 20 % since the start of the period , which is nearly double the market 's performance .
As a note , it 's possible Viking could have already exited the position since this year 's first quarter , we wo n't know until next quarter 's 13-F filings .
What we do know is that when Viking 's team took a look at Disney , they liked what they saw , and it 's easy to see why .
Why Disney remains a great long-term stock
To better understand Disney , I often describe the House of Mouse as two core sets of complimentary operations .
The first is its media-networks division , which is dominated by ESPN but also contains the Disney Channels and Freeform formerly ABC Family .
This segment alone typically provides more than half of Disney 's operating profit .
Disney 's other three segments -- studio entertainment , parks and resorts , and consumer products and interactive media -- make up the other leg of Disney 's business empire .
In recent years , the company has worked to reduce its reliance on its media networks business , particularly ESPN , as cord-cutting has weighed on the segment .
However , that does n't mean Disney is throwing in the towel on its flagship division .
Instead , CEO Bob Iger plans to launch over-the-top versions of ESPN later this year .
This unbundled approach , which might look something like HBO Now , should help cater to consumers willing to spend on sports programming but not on channels they never use .
So long as it can effectively navigate this transition , which seems manageable , ESPN should be fine .
Disney has also aggressively expanded its non-cable businesses .
Its acquisitions of Pixar in 2006 , Marvel in 2009 , and Lucasfilm in 2012 each dramatically increased the scope of Disney 's content assets .
Disney has already developed multibillion-dollar franchises from each of these studio acquisitions , and it shows no signs of slowing .
The company has also recently grown its footprint of global parks , opening Shanghai Disneyland in 2016 in a nod to China 's increased importance in the global film business .
Disney Shanghai alone helped increase its parks and resorts segment 's operating earning by 20 % in its most recent quarter .
The company is so large that investors should expect steady , slightly above-average growth rates .
Wall Street analysts expect Disney to increase its earnings-per-share at an average annual rate of 9.4 % over the next five years .
Combined with the company 's ability to grow its dividend -- it has increased its cash distribution more than sevenfold since 2000 -- Disney remains a top media investment , which Viking 's investment only underscores .