Stocks In Red That Might Produce Some Green
As a value investor , the recent pullback gives us some opportunity to do some shopping .
Here are a couple of names we suggest taking advantage of while they are in the red .
Shares of Walt Disney fell Thursday after CEO Bob Iger offered details of the company 's plans for the future at a Bank of America Merrill Lynch conference in New York .
Iger said , `` With my tenure winding down , my two biggest priorities are what we announced a few weeks ago , which is the direct-to-consumer proposition of businesses for ESPN and Disney .
And secondly , the succession process and a smooth transition for my successor .
I 'm confident that both will be great for the company .
That 's how I intend to spend a significant amount of my time in the next year and a half to two years . ''
On the topic of streaming , Iger said the company plans to have two services , one for Disney and one for ESPN .
Iger explained , `` With the Disney direct-to-consumer app or platform is , we are going to launch it in late 2019 .
We 're doing that for two reasons .
First of all , as we exit the Netflix output deal , we do n't get access to our theatrical release movies until the beginning of 2019 .
Secondly , we wanted time to actually develop and build up original programming for the platform .
So , late 2019 , we 'll launch a Disney-branded service , it will have -- it will be the output distributor for the theatrical release movies .
What we announced at earnings , when we announced the BAMTech controlling position is that the Disney movies would be on this platform , we left open what we were going to do with Marvel and Star Wars .
We 've now decided that we will put the Marvel and Star Wars movies on this app as well .
So it will have the entire output of the studio , animation , live action and Disney including Pixar , Star Wars and all the Marvelfilms . ''
On ESPN , Iger said , `` We 're probably going to launch sometime this spring .
We will launch with 10,000 live sporting events that are not currently on ESPN 's linear channels and those will include Major League Baseball , the National Hockey League , MLS , some tennis and a lot of college sports that we own the rights to already .
So , it 'll be 10,000 new live sporting events in the first year .
On top of the existing ESPN App , in the same app , you 'll be able to subscribe to , let 's call it , a Plus service , we 've not named it officially .
You 'll be able to have subscribed to significantly more sports programming than you get just through the linear channels .
So , if you are a big sports fan , again one app experience , you can watch the liner channels on ESPN , or you can buy up to 10,000 new sporting , extra sporting events for the year .
Over time , I think the way you have to look at this is , this will be a sports marketplace platform .
Think what iTunes is for instance , where you 'll be able to go to the platform and actually buy , almost on an a la carte basis , a sport , a sporting event , a season , a league , maybe a conference , as a for instance , you 'll be able to pick and choose over time what it is you want .
It wo n't necessarily be a one-size-fits-all .
We may launch it that way , but the goal eventually is to create something that the sports fan can essentially use to design what their sports media experience could be . ''
Mergers and acquisitions continue to be a top priority , `` M&A has been one of the buckets that we 'd allocated capital , and that 's actually returned value to shareholders because the acquisitions of Pixar , Marvel , and Lucas clearly enabled us to grow the company and our bottom line .
We 've shown willingness and to be opportunistic when it comes to M&A , to make some pretty big bets and fortunately of the big ones that we 've made , they 've really paid off well .
The M&A created growth for the company , which enabled us to grow our dividend and also continue to buy back our shares .
I think as you look forward , you have to consider , it 's likely to continue to be a blend , '' explained Mr. Iger .
With one quarter remaining in fiscal 2017 , Mr. Iger said that Disney expects fiscal 2017 to be roughly in line with the adjusted EPS from fiscal 2016 $ 5.72 .
The impact of the NBA and big growth in costs for ESPN 's broadcasting rights are expected to weigh on DIS in the final quarter , while the fiscal year does not include the benefit of a big Star Wars movie in 2016 , Star Wars -- The Force Awakens raked in over $ 2 billion at the box office .
Although broadcast rights are certainly expensive to get and maintain , we think Disney has done a solid job maintaining quality sports programming , acquiring TV deals and demanding premium fees from consumers and cable companies for their streams .
On the motion picture front , Disney 's Beauty and the Beast remake had terrific reception from fans , while Thor : Ragnarok , Coco and Star Wars : Episode VIII drop later this year followed by Episode IX in 2019 .
While ESPN continues to be a concern for investors , as evidenced by this week 's drop , we believe that the emphasis on streaming and the draw of live sports will ultimately benefit DIS and its shareholders .
Recommended by We still like Disney 's diverse revenue stream , loyal fan base , solid portfolio of franchises and unrivaled ownership of priceless content .
Though Hurricane Irma has disrupted Disney cruises and temporarily closed the Orlando theme parks , we feel that the company -- for lack of a better term -- will be able to weather the storm .
DIS did not offer any guidance revisions directly related to Irma , but Mr. Iger cautioned that the company has seen `` some impact '' from the hurricane .
Of course , the relatively disappointing outlook for the current quarter was not well received by short-term-focused investors , and we have trimmed our Target Price , but we think DIS should be a core holding in nearly all portfolios .
Comcast , a media giant , theme part operator and internet service provider , also attended the aforementioned Bank of America Merrill Lynch conference , and also managed to spread panic amongst investors after warning that the company expects substantial subscriber loss in the current quarter .
Matt Strauss , EVP of XFINITY Services for Comcast Cable said , `` Our priorities are actually very focused around three things : continuing to drive our product innovation , continuing to drive profitable growth and continue to improve our customer experience .
And we 've made investments as you noted over the past few years on really building out our infrastructure , so investing in our cloud technology , deploying DOCSIS , investing in all digital and that has given us the platforms and the ability to launch some really innovative products into the market , and now it 's really about the scale and how do we get those products into the most profitable segments at the right pace and obviously as quickly as possible . ''
Mr. Strauss continued , `` Clearly the trend is more and more of consumption , the videos go to time shifting .
This is something you are seeing with the decline in live ratings .
I think that 's a trend that 's only going to continue .
I think what people sometimes miscalculate , though , is because they see a decline in ratings , they assume that video consumption is declining and actually it 's the opposite .
We see video consumption increasing .
It 's just that more and more is getting time shifted outside of the traditional measurement .
So it 's almost like dark matter , you know it 's there , but it 's not fully being accounted for .
So in many ways , we think that we 're just continuing to tap into the changes in the viewing behavior , which in some ways we 've had a huge role in .
We launched on-demand 15 years ago . ''
For the bad news in Q3 , Mr. Strauss said , `` You can expect to see us lose in the neighborhood of 100,000 to 150,000 video subscribers and that 's going to be partly due to the competition .
It 's also going to be due in part to the terrible storms that we 're seeing , which are affecting two of our divisions .
But what you 'll also see is us hit our financial numbers , because we 're very focused , we 're very disciplined and we 're really looking at household economics , growing average revenue per user , growing positive cash flow and not getting distracted by unprofitable video subs , but looking at it more through the lens of relationships .
And to that end well we 'll have a loss on video subscribers ; we 'll actually have an increase in total customer relationships in the neighborhood of 100,000 for the quarter .
So , I think it is the right balance and I think that you will continue to see us appropriately grow video , but do it in a very financially responsible way . ''
Although CMCSA shares took a haircut of more than 7 % on the news , we continue to like the company 's overall trajectory , which in our view is propelled by its diverse media portfolio including NBC , Telemundo , E! , NBC Sports Network and geographically diverse theme parks Universal Parks & Resorts including Universal Studios Hollywood .
Comcast 's quarterly dividend , which was bumped up in the beginning of this year to $ 0.1575 , results in a 1.7 % yield .
Our Target Price has been edged lower but we think last week 's plunge was overdone .