Disney 's Fiscal 2017 In Review
Disney had a fairly soft fiscal 2017 ( fiscal year ends September 2017 ) .
The company 's total revenue declined 1 % year-over-year ( y-o-y ) to $ 55.1 billion , primarily due to a fall in the company 's Studio revenues , weakness in the Consumer Products segment , and a continued decline in the Media Networks segment .
As expected , ESPN has remained a concern for Disney in fiscal 2017 as well .
However , the company was able to rely on the Parks & Resorts business to offset that top line pressure , led by its international operations .
The company also posted earnings of $ 5.73 per share , down 1 % y-o-y .
In fiscal 2017 , Disney also announced that it will be increasing its stake in BAMTech , a video streaming company originally created by Major League Baseball , from 33 % to 75 % , to help create an ESPN-branded , over-the-top video streaming service ESPN + , which will be launched in early 2018 with a fully redesigned app .
This app will offer scores and highlights along with streaming channels for subscribers , and the ability to subscribe to live events .
In addition , Disney also announced the launch of its direct-to-consumer streaming offering in 2019 , which will include content from Disney , Pixar , Lucasfilm , and Marvel .
It will also have 4-5 exclusive feature films per year , in addition to some original series .
Declines In Media Networks Continue
In fiscal 2017 , Disney 's Media Networks revenue declined 1 % y-o-y to $ 23.5 billion , while its segment operating income decreased 11 % y-o-y to $ 7 billion .
This was driven by a decline in both Broadcasting and Cable Networks , due to lower impressions and advertising , partially offset by higher rates .
In addition , the increase in segment affiliate fees was offset by a decrease in subscribers .
Disney has been witnessing a slowdown in its Media Networks segment lately , of which ESPN forms an integral part .
The company 's financials were substantially impacted by the higher programming expenses at ESPN -- primarily due to the first year of the new NBA contract -- which more than offset growth in its affiliate fee revenues .
Parks & Resorts : Strong Growth Driver
Disney 's Parks & Resorts business experienced strong growth during fiscal 2017 .
The segment 's revenue grew 8 % y-o-y and operating income increased 14 % y-o-y , driven by growth in its domestic and international businesses .
The segment 's growth in domestic operations was primarily driven by higher average guest spending and a 2 % y-o-y increase in attendance , partially offset by higher expenses to support higher volume and new attractions .
On the international front , the company benefited from the full year operations of Shanghai Disney Resort and improved results at Disneyland Paris now 100 % owned .
We expect Parks & Resorts to be a key growth driver for Disney in fiscal 2018 .
Weak Studio Performance
Disney 's studio business had a somewhat soft year on a year-on-year basis , but that was largely due to difficult comps to key titles in the prior year , including Star Wars : The Force Awakens , Captain America : Civil War and The Jungle Book .
As a result , the company 's studio entertainment revenues decreased 11 % y-o-y and its operating income fell 13 % y-o-y .
Future Outlook
In fiscal 2018 , Disney expects its earnings to be negatively impacted by the consolidation of BAMTech and its ongoing investment in the business .
In addition , Disney expects a $ 1 billion increase in its capital expenditures due to the continued investment in Parks and Resorts .
Despite the weak trends witnessed by the company , we expect 2018 to be better than 2017 across most segments .
In Media Networks , the company expects ESPN to absorb most of the NBA rights costs in fiscal 2018 , which could help the segment grow , albeit at a slower pace .
In Park & Resorts , the company is expected to benefit from another operational year of Shanghai Resort .
In Studio Operations , the company has two Star Wars films The Last Jedi , Han Solo and three Marvel films Black Panther , Avengers : Infinity War , Ant-Man and the Wasp lined-up for fiscal 2018 .
Thor : Ragnarok has already grossed more than $ 800 million at the global box-office , which is significantly higher than the entire run of the first Thor movie in 2011 .
The upcoming lineup should help the company lift its Studio and Consumer Products revenues going forward .