Disney Earnings : Buying Fox Would n't a Bad Idea
Why on earth would a mouse chase a fox , you ask ?
Walt Disney Co. 's earnings have the answer .
Shares of Disney -- home to Mickey Mouse , of course -- have n't had their usual twinkle the last two years as TV viewers switched to cheaper streaming packages or got rid of cable all together .
Its prized ESPN division has become a particular sore spot for those reasons and more .
Those trends continued to pressure Disney in its latest quarter .
Time for Another Deal ?
The $ 158 billion company said late Thursday that revenue and profit declined on an annual basis for the first time since 2009 , back when the U.S. was just beginning to emerge from a recession .
Partly to blame for Disney 's disappointing results were issues encountered in the usual course of business : bad weather especially Hurricane Irma , which whacked Disney World and a write-off of an animated film that the company is n't going to release .
But aside from those setbacks , lower advertising revenue and higher sports-programming costs dinged Disney 's media-networks division .
Nielsen data also recently showed an accelerated decline in Disney 's cable ratings heading into the fall months .
They were 12 percent lower this year through September , dragged down by its namesake channels .
Tuning Out
This echos the challenges facing not just other TV-network owners , but also the companies that distribute the content .
Earlier on Thursday , satellite-TV provider Dish Network Corp. reported its own third-quarter results .
And while the company attributed the majority of its customer cancellations to Hurricane Maria -- which led to the one-time removal of 145,000 subscribers in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands -- the company has been hemorrhaging subscribers for a while now .
Moving Online
For its part , Dish is trying to retain so-called cord-shavers with its Sling TV product .
Disney is now trying something similar , having decided to stop selling movies to Netflix Inc. and instead launch its own online product next year that will be filled with its own premiere TV and movie content -- and the more the merrier .
Against this backdrop , the news this week that Disney reportedly considered acquiring the majority of 21st Century Fox Inc. 's assets should n't come as a total shocker .
Buying Fox 's film studio and certain TV networks would provide Disney with more offerings to entice subscribers .
As for Fox 's motivations , I explained Wednesday that it 's rather simple : Fox may be worth around $ 25 billion more than its current market if the Murdochs break it up and sell off certain pieces .
That 's at least according to a sum-of-the-parts analysis from Wells Fargo & Co.
The Murdochs would shift their focus to their profit centers , which are Fox News and programming on its regional sports networks , and reap a lot of money in the process .
The talks between Disney and Fox are said to be dead , or perhaps on ice for now .
But Fox has a pretty good reason to reignite them with Disney or find another suitor , and Disney is clearly looking to scoop up more content .
In that case , the potential for dealmaking puts a floor under their stock prices .