Regulators to Duke Energy : Do you still want the Lee Nuclear plant and how much will it cost ?
N.C. regulators want answers -- including a new cost estimate - -- on Duke Energy 's plans for its proposed Lee Nuclear Station , given financial troubles surrounding two similar projects in Georgia and South Carolina .
And the N.C. Utilities Commission wants those answers quickly .
It has given Duke just 60 days to give detailed responses on more than a dozen questions about its own plans and what effect the Chapter 11 filing by Westinghouse Electric Co. -- designer and principal contractor for the reactor planned at Lee -- will have on them .
They even raised the possibility that Duke would abandon the project .
Sixty days may sound like a long time , but it is lightning speed for regulatory matters .
Particularly since the commission wants Duke to assess the bankruptcy filing , when it is likely to be resolved , how much delay it would likely cause to Lee and that new cost estimate .
Duke had no comment on the questions the commission asked but said it would make a `` timely '' response to them .
Duke has not estimated how much Lee is likely to cost since it put out an $ 11 billion estimate likely $ 14 billion , including interest in 2008 .
For comparison purposes , SCANA Corp. at that time was still estimating its V.C. Summer project -- now under construction in South Carolina -- would cost about $ 9.5 billion to build .
The most recent estimate for Summer , admittedly clouded by Westinghouse 's situation , is creeping toward $ 16 billion .
And there is one other twist that could give Duke some heartburn .
The commission 's order specifically notes that in its last ruling on Lee , in 2011 , it authorized Duke to spend up to $ 120 million in costs for the project that would be allocated to North Carolina .
`` If DEC 's expenditures for such costs have exceeded the $ 120 million , explain how this occurred without the Commission 's approval , '' the new order says .
Well , Duke has exceeded those expenditures -- by a good bit .
In its most recent filing with South Carolina regulators , Duke says it spent $ 531 million .
Duke Energy Carolinas ' breakdown for cost allocations runs at roughly 70 % allocated to North Carolina and 30 % to South Carolina .
So North Carolina 's share for costs to date totals more than $ 370 million .
Even if you count only what Duke has spent since 2011 -- about $ 321 million -- North Carolina 's allocation would be close to $ 225 million .
So it appears there will be some explaining required .
No cause , but questions The commission issued this order in response to a filing by NC WARN , a Durham-based advocacy group and frequent Duke critic .
After Duke filed its most recent cost report in North Carolina in February , the group asked the commission to issue a show-cause order finding that Duke had failed to make an adequate report .
It wanted the commission to require Duke to provide information about the financial problems at Westinghouse and prevent Duke from attempting to pass on any of its costs to date for Lee to customers .
The commission found no grounds for the show-cause order NC WARN sought .
That was the only part of the order issued Monday that Duke responded to directly .
`` We are pleased that the NCUC denied NC WARN 's motion for a show-cause order , '' says spokeswoman Mary Kathryn Green .
`` We will timely provide all information requested by the commission . ''
And there is a lot of information the commission wants .
It noted that interest costs are escalating for the pre-construction work the Charlotte Business Journal published a story here on that earlier today and found at least some of NC WARN 's questions worthwhile .
It asked on its own volition that Duke answer those and a number of other questions that the commission thinks are pertinent .
`` Therefore , the Commission will require Duke to provide information concerning its assessment of the Toshiba financial situation and potential impact on the Lee Nuclear Station , '' the order says , referring to Westinghouse by the name of its parent company , Toshiba Corp. `` Specifically , the Commission requests that DEC provide a report containing : its assessment of the Toshiba bankruptcy situation , including possible resolutions and likely timelines ; a brief and general description of any contracts that Duke may have entered with Toshiba or Toshiba 's affiliates to support the design and construction of the Lee Nuclear Station , including any termination clauses ; ... and Duke 's estimate of any delay caused by the Toshiba situation with respect to DEC 's plans to construct or complete the Lee Nuclear Station . ''
The commission also asks about the license for the project that the Nuclear Regulatory Commission issued in December .
The N.C. commission wants to know if the license is contingent on Duke 's use of Westinghouse 's AP1000 reactor and whether a new license would be needed if it opted for another reactor design .
Some of those issues may be difficult to address .
Duke , for instance , has not committed to building the project .
So any estimate of delays could be hard to describe , since there is no current timeline .
And then the commission added eight additional questions it wants answered .
Picking up on one of the concerns raised by NC WARN , it noted that Duke could charge customers to pay at least interest costs for the project now under `` construction work in progress '' CWIP provisions in N.C. law .
The commission asks , `` does DEC believe it may request inclusion of such CWIP in its rate base in its next general rate case application ? ''
And it asks `` If Duke decides to cancel the Lee Nuclear Station and seeks Commission approval to record any abandoned project development costs ? ''
In addition to a new , overall cost estimate , the commission asks Duke to calculate `` total budgeted expenditures for the Lee Nuclear Station for 2017 , 2018 , and 2019 . ''
And it wants those estimates both with and without the interest costs .
The commission also asks whether Duke `` has ... suspended further investment in the Lee Nuclear Station until the Toshiba-Westinghouse situation is resolved ? ''