Fuel savings and improved air quality highlight Duke Energy 's truck-stop effort in N.C.
More than 25,000 gallons of truck fuel is projected to be saved annually as part of a $ 300,000 Duke Energy project to fund electrification at a North Carolina truck stop .
Big Boy 's Truck Stop , in the Johnston County town of Kenly , will soon have 24 truck electrification stations where drivers can pay to plug in and avoid idling engines .
This will be an economical way to provide electricity and hot or cold air during overnight stays .
Additionally , four plugs will provide standby power for refrigerated cargo to avoid the need to run diesel compressors .
`` The economic and environmental aspects of the projects are terrific .
It allows drivers to use technology to lower their own carbon footprint in the course of their daily work that benefits our environment , '' said Melisa Johns , Duke Energy 's vice president , business development .
On an annual basis , the project should reduce carbon dioxide emissions by almost 500 tons and reduce volatile organic compounds ( VOCs ) and nitrogen oxide emissions by more than 2 tons .
IdleAir , located in Knoxville , Tenn. , will install and maintain the stations .
They are expected to complete installation before this summer .
`` This is a common sense feature that helps truckers get a cleaner , quieter night 's sleep , while saving them money and sparing the community from significant emissions , '' said Mark Miller , president of Convoy Solutions , provider of IdleAir .
Each year , more than 2 billion gallons of diesel are wasted by overnight idling , according to a study from Argonne National Labs .
Idling is the industry standard method of providing overnight comfort to the more than 1 million drivers who sleep in their trucks each night .
The family-owned Big Boy 's Truck Stop is located at 595 Bagley Road , Kenly , N.C. -- off I-95 , exit 105 .
`` We 're eager to attract new drivers , and give all guests an alternative to idling , '' said owner Walter Powell Jr. `` This will help us be better neighbors in our community , which means a lot to our business . ''
The Duke Energy program was part of a 2015 settlement with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and environmental groups .
IdleAir , is a privately held company that provides a menu of choices -- both services and products - for America 's hard-working long-haul truck drivers .
These solutions are alternatives to idling engines during rest periods that have both positive economic and environmental impacts to users , companies and the world we live in . ''
Based in East Tennessee , Convoy Solutions LLC , the proud provider of IdleAir , is a privately held company that provides a menu of choices -- both services and products - for America 's hard-working long-haul truck drivers .
These solutions are alternatives to idling engines during rest periods that have both positive economic and environmental impacts to users , companies and the world we live in .
The IdleAir product and service allows truck drivers to turn off their diesel engines and APU 's and still enjoy heating , cooling , standard electric inside and outside the cab , Satellite TV , Internet , and many of the comforts of home -- all while saving money and getting better sleep without the noise , vibration , and exhaust fumes from idling .