Duke posts full Q&A from controversial online-only shareholder meeting
Duke Energy made good Wednesday on a promise it made when opting for an online-only shareholder meeting .
On its website , the company posted answers to what it says were all the questions written in by shareholders during the meeting .
The move to hold the entire meeting online , without shareholders attending in-person , was controversial .
While CEO Lynn Good presided over the meeting in a studio at an undisclosed location , protesters took to the streets outside the Duke Energy Center in Charlotte accusing the company of being afraid to face the public .
Good answered 14 questions during the 20-minute question-and-answer session that took place after the business portion of the May 4 meeting .
Duke posted a transcript of that in addition to what it says is the full , uncorrected text of each additional question asked and answers provided by unnamed Duke employees .
It is not possible to independently verify Duke 's assertion that the questions published are verbatim , unedited versions of every question written in during the meeting .
But Duke says that every question asked is in the document it published and that it did not even change them to correct grammatical errors .
All the questions from shareholders or people holding proxies for shareholders were submitted in writing .
No one other than Duke personnel and contractors were present in the studio from which the meeting was streamed online .
Duke said from the outset that using the online format and providing answers to questions not fielded during the meeting would mean that Duke could respond to more questions .
That appears to have been the case .
The PDF document , which can be downloaded here , spans 22 pages .
Duke counts 55 `` questions . ''
But that includes the 14 questions Good answered and 15 duplicates that referenced existing responses to previous questions .
Answers provided by Good are labeled accordingly .
The additional 26 responses do not include an attached name , and it is not clear that shareholders will treat those as `` answers from the top . ''
Some questions are answered in a straightforward manner .
For instance , one shareholder or proxy holder asked , `` When is management ... going to consider an increase in retirement compensation ? ''
Duke 's responders replied : `` At present , there are no plans to implement a cost of living increase for retirees under Duke Energy 's pension plans . ''
PR cast
Others had a much more `` public relations '' cast .
A shareholder asks , `` Instead of trying to slow the growth of solar by fighting the policies that have allowed N.C. to become a national leader , why is n't Duke figuring out how to capitalize on the energy sources of the 21st century ... ? ''
Duke responds by first recounting its investment in renewables .
`` Duke Energy is a strong supporter of solar and other renewable resources , '' it responds .
`` Over the last decade , we 've invested $ 5 billion in renewables in over a dozen states , including North Carolina .
This has made us one of the top five renewable energy companies in the U.S. , with more than 3,000 megawatts of owned capacity . ''
But the answer does come around to Duke 's efforts to tighten rules involving contracts for solar projects .
`` However , in North Carolina we are required to buy from solar developers at 15-year contracts at fixed prices that are higher than market , '' the answer continues .
`` Those higher costs are passed directly to our customers , and we estimate this will result in our customers overpaying more than $ 1 billion over the next 12 years . ''
Director questions
Duke declines to say who prepared the responses , though spokeswoman Catherine Butler says `` Lynn Good , senior company leaders and members of the board of directors were involved , providing input and reviewing the responses . ''
Some of the questions were directed at specific directors .
Butler says those directors reviewed the responses for those questions .
One questioner addressed director John Forsgren , for instance , asking , `` As chair of the Finance and Risk Management Committee , please explain why the board is opposed to disclosure regarding the public health risks of coal use ? ''
Duke 's response starts by stating that safety was Duke 's top priority .
`` Duke Energy is heavily regulated at both the state and federal level , '' the answer continues .
`` Public health standards are created by the experts at state and federal agencies who determine such things as safe drinking water standards , air emission limits or what the appropriate disposal methods are for waste .
`` Our job is to comply with those standards .
These state and federal agencies have the appropriate medical and technical expertise to determine what is appropriate to maintain public health .
Therefore , it would be inappropriate for Duke Energy to attempt such a study and ... the board does not believe it is in the best interests of the corporation or its shareholders to prepare such a report . ''
Feedback Critics -- including environmental groups and consumer advocates -- accused Duke of going to an online-only meeting to hide from protesters and from the public generally .
Duke said that its only motive was to allow as many shareholders as possible to participate in the meeting and to give them equal access .
Good addressed the issue , which was raised by questioners attending the online meeting limited to shareholders and people holding shareholder proxies .
Most of the questions had a critical cast .
But one of the `` questions '' near the end of Duke 's document was really a comment about the new meeting style .
`` Sorry you did not get to my questions , but like the webcast format , '' said the 54th correspondent .
Duke answered : `` Thank you for the feedback .
We look forward to continuing to enhance the experience moving forward . ''