Duke Energy doles out $ 1.1 M in water resources grants
UNC Charlotte got a $ 76,521 grant to establish a long-term Catawba Basin Upland Watershed Observatory as part of $ 1.1 million in Water Resource Fund grants announced Tuesday by Duke Energy .
Duke held a press conference Tuesday afternoon at the Daniel Stowe Botanical Gardens in Belmont to announce the awards .
UNC 's grant will be used to document the impact that land use and invasive species have on water quality and quantity along the Catawba .
The information will be used to determine the best conservation practices for uplands in the watershed .
The largest individual awards were $ 100,000 each .
Those went to : Foothills Conservancy of North Carolina to match funds from the Catawba-Wateree Water Management Group for underwriting research .
Palmetto Conservation Foundation in South Carolina to protect the environment by using sound management practices and materials to build the Dug Mountain Passage of the Palmetto Trail .
The city of Eden , site of the Dan River coal ash spill , to establish a walking trail next to a waterway in west Eden .
Pickens County , South Carolina , for improvements to the Twelve Mile Recreation Area .
The City of Jacksonville to revitalize Riverwalk Marina and replacing old docks and piers .
The Nature Conservancy of South Carolina to contribute to the purchase of an iconic property for donation to South Carolina State Parks .
The grants were made through the Duke Energy Foundation .
It established the Water Resources Fund in 2015 as a $ 10 million multi-year commitment from Duke Energy to help local organizations protect and improve the environment across the Carolinas and neighboring states .
The foundation announced 14 grants Tuesday .
They bring the total grants to date to $ 6 million in 73 projects in the Carolinas and Virginia .
`` These projects benefit our waterways and contribute to the economic vitality of our local communities , '' says Kodwo Ghartey-Tagoe , Duke Energy 's South Carolina president .
`` Maintaining the vitality of our communities is one of our most important responsibilities at Duke Energy . ''