Ford to cut 1,400 jobs as pressure grows on profits
Automaker risks clash with Trump as it sheds one in 10 salaried jobs in North America
Ford will cut 1,400 jobs , the Detroit automaker said on Wednesday , as chief executive Mark Fields faces pressure to improve sagging profits and boost its share price .
The move to cut about 10 per cent of Ford 's salaried workforce in North America and Asia by the end of September is part of a previously announced plan to trim costs by $ 3bn this year .
Staff in areas that support new technologies such as electrification and autonomous vehicles will not be affected .
The cuts will be made by voluntary means such as early retirement , the company said in a statement .
News of job cuts at Ford risks provoking a confrontation with President Donald Trump , who has often boasted of helping create or protect jobs in the US auto industry .
But the cuts do not affect the Ford shop floor , where Mr Trump 's political support is strongest .
Ford was singled out for criticism by the president on the campaign trail , but has since tried to placate him by cancelling a planned $ 1.6 bn factory in Mexico and announcing new jobs in the US .
Rival automaker General Motors has cut more than 3,000 jobs in Michigan and Ohio in the past year as US automakers prepare for the first downturn in US vehicle sales since the great recession .
Auto sales are expected to fall this year to about 17m from last year 's record 17.55 m.
`` I suspect this is just the beginning .
Others will have to tighten belts as well .
Toyota , Nissan , Honda , the Europeans -- all will have to focus on costs while they still invest in the future , '' said Michelle Krebs of Autotrader.com .
Ford 's management has come under pressure in recent weeks , including at last week 's annual general meeting , as shareholders protest the flagging share price which has fallen sharply in the nearly three years since Mr Fields took over .
It is unclear whether news of the job cuts will do much for Ford 's share price , which was trading 1 per cent lower soon after the announcement .
Ford 's share price weakness has allowed Tesla , the California electric car upstart , to surpass it in market capitalisation .
`` We remain focused on the three strategic priorities that will create value and drive profitable growth , which include fortifying the profit pillars in our core business , transforming traditionally underperforming areas of our core business and investing aggressively , but prudently , in emerging opportunities , '' Ford said in a statement .
`` Reducing costs and becoming as lean and efficient as possible also remain part of that work . ''
Ford is under pressure to protect profits in its traditional business while investing heavily in new technologies .
Its first-quarter earnings fell sharply year on year , with pre-tax profit in the automotive segment falling $ 1.5 bn to $ 2bn .