How Hackett Will Manage Ford As He Tries To Steer The Automaker Through Tricky Waters
Ford Motor Ford CEO Jim Hackett James P. Hackett , the newly appointed chief executive of Ford Motor , is giving the first signs of how he plans to run the Dearborn , Mich.-based automaker , realigning senior management around a handful of critical themes and delegating responsibility to others who can help the former Steelcase CEO guide Ford through what is perhaps the most treacherous period in its history .
`` The leadership changes we are announcing ... across our global business are important as we foster even greater teamwork , accountability and nimble decision-making , '' said Hackett , who was named CEO on Monday , replacing Mark Fields .
`` I am excited to work together with Bill Ford and such a talented and diverse group of leaders to create a more vibrant Ford that delivers value for all of our stakeholders . ''
One way Hackett hopes to speed decision-making is by slashing the number of executives who report to him directly .
While Fields had 18 direct reports , and spent a lot of time on operational issues , Hackett has only eight and is delegating more responsibilities to leaders of three important new units : Global Markets , headed by President James Farley ; Global Operations , headed by President Joe Hinrichs ; and Mobility , headed by President Marcy Klevorn .
At a news conference Monday , he called them `` walking encyclopedias '' about the automotive business .
It 's also clear he plans to share power with Bill Ford , the company 's executive chairman .
As the great-grandson of company founder Henry Ford , and the man whose name is on nearly every vehicle it sells , Bill Ford will take a greater role as the public face of the company , handling government relations and communications .
Under the new organization , Farley will oversee sales and marketing for Ford 's operations around the world , including North America , which will now be headed by Raj Nair , an engineer who was previously head of research and development .
Also reporting to Farley are Steven Armstrong , the new president of Ford Europe , Middle East and Africa ; Peter Fleet , newly appointed president of Ford Asia Pacific ; Lyle Watters , president of Ford South America ; Kumar Galhotra , president of the Lincoln luxury division ; Sherif Marakby , the new vice president of autonomous vehicles and electrification ; and Stephen Odell , executive vice president of global marketing , sales and service .
While Farley oversees consumer-facing aspects of Ford 's business , Hinrichs will oversee operations such as manufacturing , product development and supply chain management .
Reporting to Hinrichs are Hau Thai-Tang , who was named executive vice president of product development and purchasing ; Bruce Hettle , group vice president of manufacturing and labor affairs ; Bennie Fowler , group vice president of quality and new model launches ; and Kimberly Pittel , group vice president of sustainability , environment and safety engineering .
Klevorn , who had been Ford 's chief information officer , now has the wider title of president-Mobility , which includes the year-old Ford Smart Mobility subsidiary that Hackett chaired before becoming CEO as well as IT and Global Data , Insights and Analytics .
Among her direct reports are Raj Rao , chief executive of Ford Smart Mobility , and Paul Ballew , chief data and analytics officer , and two newly appointed executives : Mobility Chief Financial Officer Neil Schloss and IT Chief Operating Officer Jeff Lemmer .
Besides Farley , Hinrichs and Klevorn , Hackett 's direct reports include John Casesa , group vice president of global strategy ; Felicia Fields , group vice president of human resources ; Robert Shanks , chief financial officer ; Ken Washington , who was named chief technology officer Thursday ; and Bradley Gayton , who was appointed chief administrative officer and general counsel .
With a smaller team than Fields had , Hackett looks to be pushing decision-making and accountability down to lower levels of the organization , something Bill Ford emphasized earlier this week when he named Hackett to the top job .
`` If we going to win in this new world , we have to empower the team .
We have to move fast , and we have to trust our people to move fast , '' he said .
He and Hackett are zeroing in on three strategic priorities :
· Execution , which means improving Ford 's operations worldwide and taking tough decisions to address underperforming parts of the business .
· Modernization , which means capitalizing on trends like artificial intelligence , robotics and 3D printing to unleash innovation and improve efficiency .
· Transformation , which means ensuring the company has the right culture , talent and strategies to meet society 's rapidly changing transportation needs .
Hackett , who ran Steelcase for 20 years , was a Ford director for three years before Bill Ford convinced him in 2016 to take the reins of a newly formed subsidiary , Ford Smart Mobility , created to design , build and invest in emerging mobility services like autonomous vehicles and ride-hailing services .
But staying on top of those fast-changing technologies while simultaneously managing headwinds in Ford 's core business is difficult .
In recent months , Bill Ford and the board of directors lost confidence in Fields ' ability to handle those challenges and worried that cultural changes that occurred under his predecessor , Alan Mulally , were backsliding .
That 's when Bill Ford tapped Hackett to take over the entire company as CEO .