Ford Ekes Out a Sales Gain on Pickups and Fleet Deliveries
Ford slightly outsold large rival GM in the U.S. last month .
But it 's not likely to be a trend .
Ford Motor Company said on June 1 that its U.S. sales rose 2.2 % in May , on an 8.4 % jump in deliveries to fleet customers from a year ago .
Ford 's retail sales fell slightly 0.8 % from a year ago .
But Ford 's overall sales gain was enough to give it a slim victory over rival General Motors for the month .
How Ford 's result compared with rivals '
Ford 's May sales gain was roughly in line with the 2 % increase expected by analysts at Edmunds .
But while old archrival GM posted a small year-over-year decline , versus expectations of a gain of almost 6 % , several other automakers exceeded Edmunds ' expectations in May :
Why the misses ?
It 's a tough market to forecast at the moment .
The U.S. new-car market is almost certainly past its cyclical peak now .
At this point in the cycle , with demand still strong but softening , it 's not surprising to see up-and-down results from month to month -- or from automaker to automaker .
The thing to watch is automakers ' spending on incentives .
So far , Ford has been unwilling to offer deep discounts in search of sales gains .
Ford 's per-vehicle spending on incentives was roughly flat overall from a year ago in May , and was actually down modestly on the F-Series pickups ( $ 500 ) and on Ford-brand car models ( $ 300 ) .
That was at odds with larger industry trends .
Here 's how Edmunds ' chief analyst , Jessica Caldwell , summed it up from an industrywide perspective :
`` While demand for new vehicles is still relatively strong , it 's a bit of smoke and mirrors .
Dealers and OEMs really pushed the deals over the holiday weekend to prop up their May numbers .
Incentives were up sharply , and it seems automakers are putting more cash on the hood to nudge car shoppers to buy versus lease .
Finance incentives were up 33 percent year over year in May , compared to a 28 percent rise in lease incentives and an 18 percent lift in cash incentives . ''
What 's working and is n't for Ford right now
Ford 's U.S. marketing and sales chief , Mark LaNeve , called out some high points during a conference call for analysts and journalists on June 1 .
Among them :
- Sales of Ford 's most important profit driver , the F-Series line of full-sized pickups , rose 12.8 % to 76,027 , the line 's best May result in 13 years .
- That jump in F-Series sales was accompanied by a fat increase in average transaction prices : up $ 3,300 from a year ago , according to J.D. Power data reported by Ford .
- That gain in F-Series pricing helped boost Ford 's overall average transaction price by $ 2,100 in May , versus a roughly $ 500 average increase for the industry as a whole .
- Ford 's highly profitable SUVs had a good month , with solid gains for the Edge up 11 % , Explorer up 21 % , and big Expedition up 14 % .
Sales of Ford-brand SUVs rose 4.2 % ; only the compact Escape down 10 % and the police version of the Explorer down 2 % lagged .
- Lincoln sales rose 44.9 % , paced by a 17 % gain for the Escape 's upscale twin , the MKC crossover .
Lincoln sold 1,061 examples of its new Continental sedan , more than doubling the year-ago result of its now-departed predecessor , the MKS .
- Ford 's inventories are in very good shape : Including vehicles in transit to dealers , the Blue Oval had 72 days ' worth of vehicles in inventory at the end of May , down from 83 days ' worth at the end of April .
Not all of the news was positive , however :
- Sales of Ford-brand cars continued to slip in May .
The group was down 11 % from a year ago , with big declines for the small Fiesta down 32 % , midsize Fusion down 12 % , and sporty Mustang down 23.5 % , mostly due to a decline in sales to rental-car fleets , LaNeve said .
Sales of the midsize Lincoln MKZ sedan also declined , by 14 % from a year ago .
- Ford 's fleet-sales gain appeared to come largely from a jump in sales to rental-car fleets , the least profitable type of fleet business .
LaNeve said that the year-over-year jump in retail sales in May was due mostly to the timing of deliveries , and reiterated that Ford 's rental-fleet sales for the full year should be roughly flat versus 2016 .
What it means for Ford investors
Ford got a new CEO in May : Jim Hackett took the reins from Mark Fields , who was ushered into retirement by Ford 's board of directors .
One of the board 's concerns : Ford 's adjusted EBIT earnings before interest and taxes profit margin in North America fell to 8.3 % in the first quarter from 12.9 % a year ago , while rival GM managed a healthy 11.7 % .
I do n't know yet what Hackett will do about that .
( To be fair , it 's still very early in his tenure ; he may not know yet , either . )
From a U.S. sales perspective , I have thought and continue to think that Ford is playing its cards pretty well in a difficult market .
Ford has chosen to be conservative with incentives , preserving profitability at the cost of incremental sales and market share .
That may not have looked like such a great choice in the first quarter , when sales slipped and some high costs cut into profits .
But rising inventories at GM and other competitors , along with falling used-car prices , might well combine to give the new-car market a `` double whammy '' before long .
If so , Ford 's decision to go against the industry grain , by keeping inventories trim and discounts restrained , could turn out to look pretty smart in retrospect .