Forget Mexico : Ford Moving Focus Production From U.S. To China , With Eye On Profitability
Ford Focus vehicles seen on a storage lot .
The small car is a good value for many buyers , but sales are declining and the company loses money making them .
So an all-new Focus will be built in China and exported to the U.S.
Ford has a new CEO , and already the company is changing its Focus -- literally .
And we will have to watch Twitter to see if President Trump approves of the changes .
The automaker that has been so much on the president 's radar screen this year said today that it will move production of the Focus compact car from Michigan to China when it introduces an all-new model in 2019 , reversing a previous plan to move assembly of the car to a plant in Mexico .
The Michigan-to-Mexico move was loudly decried by Trump even though it meant no loss of U.S. jobs , as Ford planned to replace the Focus production in Michigan with two new vehicles .
The president has been urging U.S. manufacturers to move their production from Mexico and abroad back to the U.S. .
This move , from Mexico , which still has the benefits of the North American Free Trade Agreement , to China , for one of Ford 's high-volume passenger car models and a key vehicle to attract first-time car buyers , reflects the harsh reality that most carmakers lose money on small cars .
Ford sold 169,000 Focus vehicles in 2016 , a 17 % decline from 2015 , due in part to the fact that the current Focus is a bit dated , and late in its design cycle compared with rivals like the Honda Civic , Toyota Corolla and Hyundai Elantra .
And though Ford does not release the percentage of those sales that are commercial and rental fleet , it is believed to be as much as 25 % .
Fleet sales are notoriously unprofitable .
The current Focus debuted its current look in 2012 .
`` We 've done a lot of research and consumers care a lot more about the quality and the value than they do about the sourcing location , '' Joe Hinrichs , Ford 's president of global operations , said in a conference call with reporters Tuesday .
`` iPhones are produced in China , for example , and people do n't really talk about it . ''
The chief rivals in the compact car market -- Honda Civic and Toyota Corolla -- are both made in the U.S. , in Marysville , Ohio , and Blue Springs , Mississippi , respectively .
Car companies like Ford make almost all their profit on pickup trucks and SUVs .
Small cars like Focus and Fiesta have traditionally been loss leaders to attract buyers to the brand at prices below $ 20,000 , and also to enable the company to offset the low fuel-economy of their trucks and SUVs and meet government regulations on fleetwide fuel economy .
Most car companies try and fill every need an individual or family might have in terms of vehicle type and cost , but they ca n't make a profit on each one .