Lucid Motors Is Mulling Sale After Takeover Talks With Ford
- Startup seeks funding for electric car manufacturing plant
- Ford not interested in deal at this stage , amid 100-day review
Electric carmaker Lucid Motors Inc. is raising a new round of financing and is also considering an outright sale after holding early-stage takeover talks with Ford Motor Co. , according to people familiar with the situation .
The Menlo Park , California-based firm has hired Morgan Stanley to help raise more money to pay for further development of its vehicle and a new manufacturing plant in Arizona , the people said .
They asked not to be identified talking about private company matters .
Lucid approached the senior management of Ford about a possible sale , the people added .
Ford is not looking for a deal at this time , one of the people said , as new Chief Executive Officer Jim Hackett is in the midst of a 100-day review of the company 's plans and priorities .
Founded in 2007 , Lucid said it 's targeting 2019 to begin production of its all-electric luxury sedan , after earlier saying it would start in 2018 .
Staffed by many engineers from rival Tesla Inc. , Lucid released a video in July showing its Air production model hitting speeds of 235 miles per hour .
The vehicle will start at $ 60,000 .
Lucid , which originally focused on making battery packs for electric buses in China , has raised more than $ 100 million from Asian investors , including Tsing Capital and Mitsui & Co. .
Silicon Valley venture capital firm Venrock is also a backer .
Lucid is working on its fourth funding round , known as a Series D. `` We do n't have the money in place .
That 's why we need to secure Series D , '' Chief Technology Officer Peter Rawlinson said at the New York International Auto Show in April .
`` It would be irresponsible to start moving earth or start anything until we have a financial runway to execute that professionally and with absolute integrity . ''
The Arizona plant is expected to cost $ 700 million .
In an interview with Bloomberg News , Rawlinson said Lucid is `` thrilled with the response from investors . ''
He declined to comment on the scale of the fundraising , or the talks with Ford .
`` We do n't comment on speculation , '' Karen Hampton , a Ford spokeswoman , said in an email .
A representative for Morgan Stanley did n't immediately respond to a request for comment .
In May , Ford 's board of directors ousted Mark Fields and installed Hackett , the former CEO of office furniture maker Steelcase Inc. , who has ties to Silicon Valley and had most recently been running Ford 's foray into self-driving cars .
The board was unhappy with the pace of change under Fields and the nearly 40 percent decline in the company 's share price on his watch .
Ford is not ruling out a deal down the road , according to one of the people .
The automaker has big plans to bring out plug-in cars and hybrids .
It is spending $ 4.5 billion to electrify 40 percent of its lineup by 2020 .
Rival General Motors already has a long-range electric vehicle on the market .
Ford also has promised to put autonomous cars on the road by 2021 .
They 're expected to be battery powered .
In February , Ford said it was investing $ 1 billion in Argo AI , a startup run by former Google and Uber executives that is developing self-driving software .