Is Ford 's Profit `` Engine '' Finally Starting to Sputter ?
Ford 's profit in its all-important North America region fell 19 % in the second quarter .
What 's happening ?
Ford Motor Company said this past week that it earned $ 2.2 billion in pre-tax profit in its North America region in the second quarter .
That 's a solid result , but it 's down from a year ago , when Ford earned $ 2.7 billion .
The story of the drop is n't as simple as you 'd think .
It 's true that Ford 's U.S. sales , which drive most of its results in North America , were down 3.3 % in the second quarter from the same period last year .
It would be easy to conclude that that 's the story .
A 7.4 % jump in U.S. sales of Ford 's F-Series pickups was n't enough to power a year-over-year profit gain for Ford in North America .
But here 's the thing : That sales drop is more than explained by a year-over-year decline in sales of Ford 's lower-profit car models .
U.S. sales of Ford 's higher-profit SUVs and F-Series pickups were both up 3.3 % and 7.4 % , respectively in the quarter .
At first glance , it appears that the overall effect should have given Ford a profit boost -- or at the very least , the more favorable mix of products and better pricing should have offset the effects of the overall sales decline .
So what happened ?
The story : Ford 's costs jumped
Here 's the slide from Ford 's second-quarter earnings presentation that summarizes what changed year-over-year .
As you can see in the callout box above the first green bar , `` mix '' -- the mix of products that Ford sold in the region during the quarter -- drove a $ 217 million improvement in pre-tax profit year-over-year .
Stronger pricing , particularly on new models like Ford 's Super Duty pickups , also helped , though that pricing was offset somewhat by higher incentives .
The chart shows us that the real year-over-year impact came from higher costs , and from $ 150 million of `` Other . ''
That latter has a simple explanation : In the second quarter of last year , Ford sold its equity stake in a company called OEConnection LLC , and obviously that was n't repeated this time around .
But I thought the higher costs were worth some investigation , so I investigated -- by asking Ford 's chief financial officer to explain them .
What was behind Ford 's year-over-year cost increase Ford CFO Bob Shanks said that the story here is one that he had warned about in his first-quarter presentation :
The prices of key commodities , particularly steel , are up year-over-year .
That had an impact on Ford 's results in other parts of the world as well : For the company itself , -LSB- commodity costs are -RSB- up about nearly $ 400 million .
I talked about this in the first quarter , when I said it 's going to be over $ 1 billion for the full year .
it 's probably going to be about $ 1.2 billion for the full year based on what we know today .
When you look at the first half , we 've seen about half of that , nearly $ 560 million , and the biggest portion of that in terms of where it occurs is in North America .
And the biggest portion within the commodities is steel .
Everything is up , but the biggest piece of that is steel .
So here , you 're just simply seeing happen in the quarter what we talked about in the first quarter .
Shanks noted that increased commodity costs had a $ 69 million impact on Ford 's results in Europe in the second quarter , and smaller effects elsewhere in the world .
The profit decline was a fluke , but it 's also a trend While the explanation for Ford 's second-quarter profit decline in North America is something of a fluke , in the sense that it 's not related to Ford 's business execution , it 's hard to deny that the trend for profits and margins in Ford 's most important region have n't been good over the last year and a half .
The bars show Ford North America 's pre-tax profit for every quarter since the beginning of 2016 , in billions of dollars right-hand axis .
The dots on the line show Ford 's profit margin in each quarter left-hand axis .
That trend is , of course , what we would expect to see as the market for new vehicles passes the peak of its cycle .
Sales are still strong , but incentives are rising as automakers try to generate year-over-sales growth in a market that 's more or less flat , and that in turn squeezes profit margins .
Ford was n't alone : General Motors ' profit in North America fell 7 % in the second quarter , while Fiat Chrysler Automobiles ' profit in the region fell 2 % year-over-year .
Ford is still faring well , though it has clearly been hit harder than some rivals by rising steel prices .
But history , and the trends we 're seeing now , both suggest that things might get worse before they get a whole lot better .