Top Ford Execs Leaving As Hackett Reshapes The Automaker For The Future
Ford Motor Co. said Tuesday that four top executives will voluntarily depart by the end of the year , a substantial change in top management as Chief Executive Jim Hackett aims to make the Dearborn , Mich.-based carmaker more competitive in a rapidly changing industry .
The heads of global marketing , quality and human resources are retiring after long careers , while the head of global strategy , who joined Ford in 2015 under previous CEO Mark Fields , has elected to leave the company .
The changes come just weeks after Hackett laid out a plan to cut $ 14 billion in costs over the next five years while offering a blueprint for a portfolio of new smart vehicles and transportation services .
`` As we develop our strategy to become the most trusted mobility company , designing smart vehicles for a smart world , we will continue to reshape the organization to deliver the most value for our customers and all of our stakeholders , '' said Hackett .
`` The changes we are announcing today will further align resources and improve efficiencies throughout our global markets and operations .
At the same time , I want to recognize the truly significant contributions of the senior leaders departing from Ford and thank them for their many years of service . ''
Those departing include Stephen ODell , executive vice president of global marketing , sales and service ; Bennie Fowler , group vice president of quality and new model launch ; Felicia Fields , group vice president of human resources ; and John Casesa , group vice president of global strategy .
Kumar Galhotra , 51 , president of the Lincoln brand , will take over as the company 's chief marketing officer , while continuing to lead Lincoln .
In a sign that Ford is contemplating a new approach in Europe a tough market from which General Motors has already withdrawn , Birgit Behrendt , 58 , was named vice president , Joint Ventures , Alliances and Commercial Affairs , a newly created position based Cologne , Germany .
Ford said Behrendt will be responsible for all joint ventures and alliances in Europe , `` including the development of new arrangements to support the company ’s business growth . ''
Several other high-ranking women received promotions .
Linda Cash , 55 , replaces Fowler as head of quality and new model launches ;
Lisa Drak , 45 , replaces Behrendt as head of powertrain purchasing and global purchasing operations ;
and Kiersten Robinson , 47 , will replace Fields as the interim head of human resources .