These 3 Auto Stocks Are Hovering Near Buy Points , But GM , Tesla Lag
Ford Motor ( F ) , Fiat Chrysler ( FCAU ) and Ferrari ( RACE ) flirted with buy points Friday , while General Motors ( GM ) and Tesla ( TSLA ) continued to trend lower .
The moves come at the end of busy , news-filled week for the auto sector .
Early Wednesday , reports of U.S. monthly auto sales showed Fiat Chrysler had the best October ever for its Ram pickup truck and all-new Jeep Compass SUV , but overall new vehicle sales slumped 13 % last month compared with a year ago .
Ford and GM had generally strong sales .
Tesla reported mixed Q3 results and Model 3 delays late Wednesday , while Ferrari raised full-year guidance and beat earnings estimates early Thursday .
Then midday Thursday , the Republicans unveiled a tax plan that seeks to eliminate tax credits for electric cars .
And late Thursday , GM and Ford confirmed that they are cooperating with a federal probe into alleged misspending at training centers for union workers that are funded by automakers , according to Reuters .
A similar issue embroiled Fiat Chrysler in July , resulting in charges against two of its former officials and a union official .
Shares of Fiat Chrysler were up 1.6 % , at 18.15 , in afternoon trading on the stock market today , after clearing an 18.20 buy point off a second-stage flat base earlier in the day .
Ford reversed 0.2 % lower , to 12.40 , after a brief attempt to take a 12.56 buy point off a first-stage , saucer-with-handle base .
Ferrari edged up 0.5 % , to 117.64 , as it tries to retake an 117.92 buy point .
IBD 'S TAKE : Buying or holding a stock can be risky heading into an earnings report .
Here 's an earnings options strategy that can help you cash in on post-earnings stock gains , while minimizing the risk from a weak quarter .
Meanwhile , GM fell 0.3 % Friday to 42.47 , heading nearer to a test of support at the 50-day moving average .
The stock peaked at 46.76 on Oct. 24 as the largest U.S. automaker crushed earnings views , but has since tumbled 9 % off that perch and is on track for its third straight weekly decline .
Tesla was down 0.5 % after sinking 6.8 % Thursday and 3.2 % Wednesday to put it more than 20 % below a high reached just a month and a half ago .
Shares of the electric car maker have now breached both the 50-day and 200-day lines , which serve as markers of institutional support for a stock , and are poised for a fourth consecutive weekly loss .