Ford Increasing Electric Vehicle Investment to $ 11 Billion by 2022
Ford said Sunday the company plans to spend $ 11 billion on electrified vehicles through 2022 .
A top Ford Motor Co. executive said the company will now spend $ 11 billion on electrified vehicles through 2022 , increasing its previous estimates as it races to catch up on battery-powered cars .
The Dearborn , Mich. , auto maker previously committed $ 4.5 billion in spending on electrified products by 2020 and said in October it would divert an additional $ 500 million from conventional products -- including gasoline-powered products -- over a five-year span .
The $ 11 billion commitment comes at a time when gasoline or diesel engines powered nearly all of the 90 million vehicles sold globally in 2017 .
Ford 's estimate was delivered during a press conference at the Detroit auto show , which opens this week .
Jim Farley , Ford 's head of global markets , said the company aims to make its electric vehicles more attractive to everyday buyers than it had in the past .
Few other auto makers are breaking out specific investment numbers related to electric vehicles .
Volkswagen AG , looking to recover following a diesel-emissions scandal in the U.S. , has committed to spend $ 40 billion on electrified vehicles over the next five years .
Ford , earning the bulk of its profits from big pickup trucks and sport-utility vehicles , has also said it would shift about $ 7 billion toward development of even more trucks and SUVs .
The auto maker unveiled one of the more important products in that push on Sunday , a bulky Ford Ranger pickup headed to U.S. dealers in early 2019 .
Even as trucks and SUVs represent a growing share of U.S. sales and profits , auto companies are investing in electric vehicles in an attempt to meet tighter regulations , particularly in China .
To get customers interested , Mr. Farley said car makers need to think about electric vehicles differently .
`` What we learned from this first cycle of electrification is people want really nice products , '' Mr. Farley told reporters .
`` We want to make EVs that are aspirational , that are iconic nameplates , with a customer base . ''
Ford today sells only one fully-electric vehicle in the U.S. , the Focus compact car .
Its Mustang sports car , F-150 pickup truck or other products , however , carry much stronger appeal .
Mr. Farley said Ford would offer a `` very wide range '' of electric vehicles in Europe and the U.S. , including electric sports car scheduled to arrive in 2020 .
`` We want to make this a statement about the company , that we 're electrifying our iconic vehicles . ''