Ford Rolls Out a Hot Rod SUV as Drivers Abandon Performance Cars
Edge ST aimed at buyers who once sought high-horsepower sedans
Automaker sees ` a pretty healthy business ' in souped-up SUVs
Ford Motor Co. has long souped up its sedans to satisfy customers looking for high performance .
Car demand is waning now but the need for speed is n't , so the automaker is rolling out a fresh hot rod that 's a sign of the times : its first race-ready SUV .
The ST edition of the Edge sport utility vehicle that Ford introduces Thursday in advance of the Detroit auto show is powered by a 335-horsepower twin-turbo V-6 engine , engineered on the track and styled to look `` sinister , '' said its designer Steve Gilmore .
`` We shredded a lot of race tracks with this vehicle , '' Jonathan Crocker , the Edge 's chief engineer , told reporters ahead of the reveal .
If the idea of doing hot laps in the family hauler seems slightly absurd , welcome to the latest twist in the SUV craze .
As U.S. car buyers continue their mass migration into utility vehicles , some are bringing along their preference for performance once sated by Taurus SHO sport sedans and Focus ST hot hatches .
Now Ford , better known for muscling up its Mustang pony car , sees a new way to sell more high-profit SUVs .
More SUVs Ahead
`` I would n't describe it as a niche , '' Raj Nair , head of Ford 's North American operations , said in an interview .
`` We see it as big enough to pursue some real engineering and some real unique parts .
For that to pay off , it needs to be a pretty healthy business . ''
The Edge will be just the first in a series of hot rod SUVs Ford has coming , Nair said .
Analysts speculate the compact Escape and subcompact EcoSport will be next in line for the ST upgrade .
`` People are running away from cars and they 're running toward trucks and SUVs , '' said Karl Brauer , executive publisher of Cox Automotive Inc. brands including car-shopping website Autotrader and researcher Kelley Blue Book .
`` Why not have the performance elements of cars migrate to SUVs , too ? ''
Fiat Chrysler Automobiles NV has already blazed the trail with SRT and R/T editions of its Dodge Durango large SUV and a Jeep Grand Cherokee that comes in a high-performance SRT package or a Trackhawk edition with a monstrous Hemi V-8 engine .
About 18 percent of Durango SUVs registered last year through October were SRT and R/T models , according to IHS Markit data .
Female Following
An understated mid-sized people mover , the Edge may seem an unlikely place for Ford to start spicing up its SUV line .
It attracts the largest female following among Ford 's SUVs , with nearly half bought by women , the company said .
Its primary competitor has been the smoothly styled Nissan Murano .
But the Edge was in line for a styling facelift after a complete makeover a couple years ago .
So Ford decided to ditch the SUV 's relatively tame Sport edition and give it the full ST treatment .
`` We sold over 140,000 Edges last year , a fair portion of those were Edge Sports , but this really takes that to another level , '' Nair said .
Besides its track-tested suspension and race-ready seats , the Edge ST 's looks take a dark turn , with a honeycomb black gloss grill and matching 21-inch shiny black rims with big red brake calipers peeking through .
The SUV 's designer is not worried about turning off traditional buyers with the racing touches .
`` The female buyers are asking , ` Make it more aggressive , so I will feel more confident in this vehicle , ''' Gilmore said .
Top-Heavy Tweaks
The engineers also had to overcome a challenge not associated with low-slug sedans -- top-heavy SUVs have a tendency to tip over if they fly through a corner too fast .
Ford tuned the Edge ST to compensate for its high ride by `` managing the all-wheel drive system and electronically creating a little bit of sportiness without getting ourselves into any issues on the center of gravity , '' Nair said .
`` Consumers may not know how to drive a performance SUV versus a car , '' said Jeff Schuster , an analyst with researcher LMC Automotive .
`` There probably needs to be some education so we do n't see people sitting on the side of their vehicle . ''
The Edge ST goes on sale this summer , but Ford has n't revealed its price yet .
The Edge Sport it replaces starts at $ 40,675 and Cox 's Brauer expects Ford to cash in on the upgrades .
`` SUV buyers traditionally have been willing to spend more money , '' Brauer said .
`` Let 's be honest , the massive shift toward SUVs and trucks allowed all the car companies to make more money selling fewer cars last year . ''