Ford Is The Next GE And Shorts Should Be Salivating
After writing extensively for Forbes on GE 's plummet in the past few months , it was striking that both GE and Ford delivered negative guidance to the Street last Tuesday .
Ford 's truth bomb -- delivered at the Deutsche Bank Global Auto Industry Conference -- was particularly destructive .
Ford CFO Bob Shanks noted that 2018 earnings were likely to be in the range of $ 1.45 - $ 1.70 versus a preliminary read on 2017 EPS of $ 1.78 ( full results are due Wednesday . )
So , in the midst of the Trump jump in the U.S. and data showing an increasing rate of growth in almost every other major global economy , Ford is predicting -- at the midpoint of its guidance range -- an EPS decline of 10 % in 2018 .
How does that happen ?
How can things be going so well in other sectors and not for Ford ?
According to Ford management , the problem -- much like the ones at GE -- is due to factors outside management 's control .
Shanks used the phrase `` some of the unknowns or the unexpected '' to describe the negative impacts Ford is feeling from commodities and currencies .
I have been listening to Ford conference calls for 25 years , beginning with my days as a cub analyst at Lehman in 1992 , and I am quite certain that Ford 's cars and trucks have always been made from steel , aluminum and other metals , and that Ford has always transacted business in many countries , thus incurring currency risk .
So , why are commodities and currencies causing such an earnings shortfall now ?
To be fair , Shanks started flagging increasing commodity prices as a risk to Ford 's earnings in his comments on F 's April 2017 earnings call , but what is Ford management doing to mitigate the impact of rising prices for metals , especially steel ?
Not much .
This is Ford 's official transcription of Shanks ' response to an analyst question at the DB conference :
`` We do n't hedge as many because our analysis had indicated that there are some currencies that provide a natural hedge to a metal like copper in Australian dollar I think , tend to move in opposite directions .
So we actually do n't hedge as much on currencies or commodities as a result .
What we have seen in more recent [ ph ] short time ( 01:04:00 ) is those natural hedges are going in the opposite direction , which are not working .
We 're actually getting the bad news on the exchange , we 're getting the bad news on commodities . ''
Translation : our margins are suffering and we are not doing anything about it .
But is n't this just a pause as Ford transforms itself into a mobility company with leading positions in autonomous vehicles ( AVs ) and battery-electric vehicles ( BEVs ) ?
Based on the Deutsche Bank presentation ( available here ) , Ford has not yet flushed out its strategy for AVs and BEVs .
In fact , Ford would seem to be years behind its competition , especially crosstown rival General Motors .
Read GM 's masterful 91-page manifesto on its strategy for AVs and BEVs ( available here ) and then read Ford 's , and the message is clear .
In fact , it seems to me that the only hope remaining for Ford shareholders is yield support from the company 's dividend .
If you read the preceding paragraphs and still want to own Ford shares for the long term , I applaud your courage and will congratulate you on receiving the company 's recently declared special dividend of $ 0.13 in addition to your regular quarterly dividend of $ 0.15 % on March 1st .
That said , remember that GE also used to be a dividend stock .
Even now , with a current yield of 3 % GE is still yielding more than full percentage point more than the S&P 500 .
GE shares are also down 45 % in the past 12 months .
Am I saying that could happen to Ford shares ?
Yes .
If Ford earns $ 1.45 in 2018 -- the low end of CFO Shanks ' guidance range -- and the shares fall below their recent P/E of range of 6.5-7.5 x , then that that would put a downside valuation on F shares of $ 7.00 - $ 7.50 , or about 40 % below where they trade today .
In prior Forbes columns , I predicted Ford would be `` the worst stock of the year '' in 2015 and 2016 , and F shares massively underperformed the S&P 500 in both periods .
This is is a slightly different call , though , I 'm looking for a sharp decline in Ford shares this year , not just relative underperformance , and that means F is an out-and-out short .
You may want to hedge a Ford short with a long GM position to have exposure to a componay that actually has a fully-defined strategy for autonomous vehicles and electrified powertrains , but I do n't think you will need to .
I believe that Ford shares are a better candidate for shorting now than at any time since the fall of 2008 .