Ford Is At A Crossroad Of Danger And Opportunity In China
It is no secret that Ford is facing a minor crisis in China .
-- January sales were down 18 percent year-on-year . ( Sales at rival GM were up 15 percent )
-- Ford China CEO Jason Luo - in the position just 5 months - has resigned
-- Momentum outside of Lincoln has basically stalled , while partner tensions simmer .
All is not lost , however .
Ford leaders might be relieved to learn that the Chinese word for crisis is composed of two characters , 危 and 机 。
The first , wei , means danger .
The second , ji , means opportunity .
Negatives and positives reside side by side .
Ford 's crisis , indeed , contains elements of both danger and opportunity .
First , the dangers : Ford 's China sales could continue to stall for months .
Main culprit : Product offerings are getting old and the new metal will not arrive until the end of 2018 .
Ford 's slump , which started in 2017 , also feels heavier because it contrasts with the 5 previous years of record growth .
Between 2012 and 2016 , Ford doubled it sales to 1.2 million .
What else is causing a feeling of foreboding ?
Vastly improved Chinese competitors like Geely and Great Wall are gobbling up fresh market share .
In 2017 , Geely even outsold Ford .
A conventional response would be to hold one 's ground and wait for new vehicles .
Like an army unit under siege calling for backup .
This approach might have worked in the past .
But times have changed .
Chinese competitors pose a real danger .
To regain strength , Ford must try bold new things .
Lucky for Ford , China provides fertile ground for experimentation - and opportunity .
Ford is already starting to shape a new and different kind of operation .
Two examples :
Electrics .
Ford surprised the industry when it announced a new joint venture with Zotye , a private electric vehicle maker .
Ford and Zotye will start producing their first EVs at the end of 2018 or early 2019 .
China leads the world in electric vehicle sales ( 777,000 in 2017 ) .
Beijing technocrats want that number to reach 1 million this year and then zoom to 6 million by 2025 .
An earlier , less nimble , version of Ford would have studied the various partner options for a couple of more years before settling on Zotye as a partner .
Peter Fleet , president of Ford Asia Pacific , says we can take the electric vehicle projections to the bank .
`` Their [ EV sales ] are going to be even bigger than you think , '' he says .
`` The government makes it clear they want [ their EV industry ] to have great , global success . ''
Tech Titan Tie-Up .
In December , Chairman Bill Ford and CEO Jim Hackett traveled to the headquarters of Alibaba and signed an agreement with Jack Ma to explore new and inventive ways to deliver cars to customers .
Alibaba , the Amazon/Ebay of China , is the PRC 's second most valuable company after Tencent .
Getting together with Alibaba is important because it opens up direct channels to Chinese consumers and inventive ways to sell cars .
Here are two other promising areas for Ford :
Smart Cities : Chinese cities are home to some of the worst traffic jams and air pollution on the planet .
Didi , the Uber of China , is working closely with major cities to improve overall traffic flows and transportation efficiencies .
Ford 's new global clarion call - smart cars for smart cities - looks like a timely solution for China 's problems .
Lincoln .
Chinese consumers bought an astounding 2.3 million luxury cars in 2017 .
German automakers - Mercedes , BMW , Audi and Porsche - dominate with 80 % of the segment .
But Lincoln jumped its own sales up to 55,000 in 2017 , from 11,000 in 2015 .
Plenty of upside there .
Confronted with slumping sales , Ford is right to venture out and take risks .
More daring moves into the electric , ride-sharing and direct distribution arenas are the only way for the Blue Oval to prevail in China over the long term .
Ford needs to be a fundamentally different company in China -- there is no Ford F-150 profit machine to lean on here .
So , Ford in China should heed its own advice as it steps into the fresh territory of electrics , autonomy and smart city transportation : Go Further .
Within a crisis reside the seeds of opportunity .