Facebook to be fined in EU probe over WhatsApp takeover
The European Commission is set to fine Facebook for misleading authorities during the 2014 takeover of WhatsApp , the latest example of Brussels taking a tough stand against a Silicon Valley company .
The commission will not reverse its decision on the 2014 acquisition but is expected to issue a significant bill to deter other companies from providing misleading information when seeking approval .
The commission can issue a maximum fine of 1 per cent of Facebook 's 2016 turnover , or $ 276m , although it has not disclosed how much the levy will be .
`` Timely and effective review of mergers depends on the accuracy of the information provided by the companies involved , '' said Margrethe Vestager , the EU competition chief , when she announced the investigation in December charging Facebook with misleading it during the approval process of its $ 21.8 bn takeover of WhatsApp in 2014 .
`` Companies are obliged to give the commission accurate information during merger investigations .
They must take this obligation seriously , '' she added .
The commission alleged that Facebook had falsely claimed it was technically impossible to combine user information from Facebook and WhatsApp automatically .
Yet WhatsApp announced last summer that it would begin sharing user information with its parent company , admitting that personal details such as phone numbers and device information would now be used to target advertisements and improve products on Facebook .
While a host of Silicon Valley companies including Google , Amazon , Apple and Microsoft have found themselves in the EU competition authority 's crosshairs , Facebook had largely sidestepped the regulatory battle .
Tech giants need to rein in powers before EU does
Pressure is growing on Google , Facebook and Apple over their unprecedented influence , says Richard Waters .
But the punishment to be announced on Thursday will be the social media company 's third fine in Europe within a week , after regulators in Italy and France levied charges for data protection and privacy violations respectively .
Several data privacy watchdogs have heavily criticised the social network and appealed to Jan Koum , WhatsApp 's co-founder and chief executive , to suspend sharing users ' data until the legality of the issue can be resolved .
Although Facebook suspended its collection of WhatsApp data for advertising purposes across Europe from November , regulators in France , Belgium , Spain , Netherlands and Germany have continued to probe its wider activities .
In particular , they have taken issue with how it tracks users across the internet without sufficiently warning consumers .
Facebook and the European Commission declined to comment .