Facebook , Inc. 's Instagram Wants to Beat Snapchat With Execution
And it just might .
Facebook 's photo - and video-sharing app was widely criticized last year when it released a version of Snap 's Snapchat Stories , called -- wait for it -- Instagram Stories .
Critics argued Instagram 's new feed format , which enabled users to seamlessly curate daily videos and photos into a story before they are deleted 24 hours later , blatantly copied Snapchat .
But Instagram CEO Kevin Systrom does n't think of its version of Stories , along with similar formats that debuted on Facebook 's WhatsApp , Messenger , and even the core Facebook app , as copying .
Execution is what 's most important
In an interview with the Instagram CEO , The Wall Street Journal 's Deepa Seetharaman captured Systrom 's annoyance with the media 's references to Instagram copying Snapchat .
`` Mr. Systrom says he understands the critics , '' Seetharaman said , `` but he disagrees with the idea that Instagram 's embrace of emerging features is untoward .
Execution matters more than originality , he says .
What critics call copying , Mr. Systrom calls competition . ''
Systrom 's annoyance with the idea that Facebook and its social networks copy Snapchat comes after Snap founder and CEO suggested in the company 's first quarterly earnings call as a publicly traded company that Facebook is copying Snap 's creativity .
`` I think the bottom line is , like , if you want to be a creative company you 've got to get comfortable with , and basically enjoy the fact that people are going to copy your products if you make great stuff , '' Snap CEO Evan Spiegel responded via a Reuters transcript when asked whether Facebook 's assault on Snap with Stories-like formats for all of its social apps is scaring him .
Snap went on to explain how other tech companies have been copied , but not conquered : `` When Google came along , everyone really felt like they needed a search strategy .
When Facebook came along , everyone felt they needed a social strategy . ''
What does Snap have that others want to copy ?
A `` camera strategy , '' Spiegel insisted .
But the biggest insult to Facebook came when Spiegel turned a question about Facebook copying Snap into an analogy with Yahoo! attempting to imitate Google 's search strategy : `` And I think , at the end of the day , just because Yahoo! , for example , has a search box , it does n't mean they are Google . ''
Systrom clearly disagrees about Instagram being the underdog in this battle .
He 's less focused on how copying is defined and more honed in on execution .
And Facebook 's Instagram has some numbers to back him up .
Is Snapchat really the king of the smartphone camera ?
The problem with Spiegel 's analogy is that Facebook is n't the laggard of the two .
Since Facebook launched Stories on Instagram last August , the format has garnered more than 200 million daily active users .
In addition , WhatsApp Status , or WhatsApp 's version of Stories , has attracted 175 million daily active users .
Both of these figures handily surpass Snapchat 's 166 million daily active users .
And Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said in the company 's most recent earnings call it is `` going to keep putting video at the center of all of our services . ''
Going a step further , Facebook 's Instagram , specifically , is undeniably just as much of a camera app as Snap is a camera company ; and Instagram is n't the underdog .
Instagram has 700 million monthly active users , making it one of the world 's largest social networks .
And Instagram 's total daily active users were 300 million as of the social network 's last update on the key metric -- and this was before Instagram launched its successful Stories format .
With Instagram already crushing Snap in terms of its user base , Snap may want to rethink which side of Spiegel 's analogy it 's on .
The camera already found a more dominant role in a greater number of users ' lives across Facebook 's apps than it has on Snapchat .