Is The Market Undervaluing Facebook Stock ?
Facebook stock has been in a bull market of its own for a major part of this year .
While the stock has been in a downtrend in the last few trading sessions , FB stock is still up by an impressive 30 % year-to-date .
The big question to ask : Is this an opportunity to buy undervalued Facebook shares on the cheap ?
Or is Facebook stock caught in a secular downtrend ?
Facebook Is Still Ruling The Roost In Mobile Advertising
Facebook is still the king of mobile advertising .
The company generated nearly $ 22.5 billion mobile advertising revenue in 2016 .
According to eMarketer , global mobile ad revenues came in at $ 101.4 billion in 2016 .
Based on these numbers , Facebook cornered more than a fifth of the mobile advertising market .
As we had written in an earlier post , Facebook outgrew the mobile ad industry over the last couple of years , growing mobile ad revenue at 77.8 % year-on-year in FY 2015 and 66.6 % year-on-year in FY 2016 , compared to market growth of 61.1 % and 47.1 % for the respective time periods .
As per the eMarketer report cited above , the mobile advertising market is expected to grow at a CAGR of over 24.5 % over the next three years to become a $ 195.5 billion market in FY 2019 .
Based on the recent growth rates 57 % year-on-year growth in Q1 2017 and 65 % year-on-year growth in LTM revenue , Facebook looks set to outperform the broader mobile advertising industry for the foreseeable future .
Facebook could be a Good Play on the Video Ad Industry
As followers of Facebook will be already aware , the company has been making moves to become a mainstream platform for video consumption .
While Facebook is still far behind leader YouTube , the company is surely taking steps like tying up with millennial-focused content creators and buying rights to live stream soccer matches Champions trophy .
These are steps in the right direction .
The video ad market is expected to be the next big growth driver in the world of online advertising .
According to a recent ' The state of online video advertising ' report , 74 % of all internet traffic in 2017 will be video traffic .
While that 's on the traffic/user side , advertisers are also positive on the format with 52 % marketing professionals naming video as the type of content with the best ROI for advertisers .
And , Facebook is making the right moves to leverage this growth and corner a significant chunk of these ad dollars .
As per estimates from Credit Suisse , Facebook could generate over $ 9.5 billion in video ads in FY 2021 , compared to $ 2.05 billion revenue in 2016 .
That 's an implied growth rate of over 35 % through FY 2020 .
Instagram is at an Inflection Point
Apart from mobile and video ad dollars , Instagram is another key pillar of Facebook 's growth .
The photo sharing platform acquired by Facebook for $ 1 billion in 2012 has now come of age , generating nearly $ 3.2 billion revenue last year .
However , as we had written in an earlier post , this appears to be a very conservative estimate and hence , we believe that Instagram could outperform these estimates significantly .
Moreover , the photo-sharing platform could go on to generate $ 12 billion of revenue in FY 2021 , implying an average annual growth rate of 30 % over FY 2017-FY 2021 .
Conclusion
Facebook stock has been on a solid run in the year to date .
However , the stock is set for higher grounds driven by strong growth in its mobile ad revenue , video ad revenue and Instagram monetization .
Wall Street currently has a consensus price target of $ 169 for FB stock , which is based on expectations of 25 % average annual earnings growth over the next 5 years .
With each of the key revenue segments growing at significantly higher rates , the upside to Facebook stock price will be much higher than the 14 % upside implied by the current Wall Street consensus .
Our Facebook stock analysis assigns the stock a rating of 4.1 / 5 , reflecting our bullish outlook on the stock .
We will put forth our Facebook valuation estimates in a follow-up post .