Facebook Posts Strong Q2 As ARPU Grows Across Geographies
Facebook posted strong second quarter results yesterday , with revenues increasing 47 % year on year y-o-y to over $ 9.3 billion , beating Reuters ' compiled consensus estimates of $ 9.2 billion .
This was driven by a significant rise in advertising revenues , which grew 47 % y-o-y to about $ 9.16 billion .
However , this was slightly offset by a decline in Payments & Other Fees collected in the quarter , which was impacted due to a reduction in games played on the Facebook platform on PCs .
In terms of the bottom line , the company 's net income grew by 71 % y-o-y to $ 3.89 billion .
Below we highlight some key takeaways from the results : Mobile revenues continue to drive ads , as mobile ads now make up 87 % of advertising revenues and stood at $ 8 billion in Q2 .
Mobile ad revenues grew because of increases in both the frequency of ads shown in News Feed and the price per ad .
Facebook 's average revenue per user also improved driven by growth in North America revenues .
ARPU in North America grew at an impressive 38.5 % y-o-y to $ 19 for the quarter , driving the company-wide ARPU up by 25.4 % to $ 4.57 on a quarterly basis .
The company continues to generate cash flows at an impressive pace despite increased capital investments , which grew to $ 1.44 billion .
During the quarter , Facebook 's free cash flows from operations grew 46 % y-o-y to $ 5.36 billion .
This should help the company continue to make investments into newer areas such as its internet.org venture , virtual reality , augmented reality and artificial intelligence .
In terms of engagement metrics , there was 17.2 % y-o-y growth in Facebook 's monthly active users MAUs to 2.06 billion .
To put this in perspective , this means that over 29 % of the world 's population logs in to Facebook on a monthly basis .
Facebook 's monthly active user base remained strong across all platforms , including Instagram , WhatsApp and Messenger .
The company plans to monetize its messenger user base by selectively showing ads across it .
The company reiterated the growing importance of video in content consumption on the Facebook platform , which should also help its advertising revenue in the long term .
The company is specifically focusing on mobile video ads , as they typically outperform traditional ads in terms of brand awareness and recall .
We expect that Facebook will continue to account for a larger share of the rapidly growing digital ad market going forward , as its product offerings have become highly popular with businesses of all sizes .