Facebook turns to original TV content with new Watch tab
Watch to roll out with dozens of shows in bid to tap into TV ad revenue Facebook Inc. .
Facebook 's Watch will be home to a wide variety of shows .
Facebook Inc. 's push toward original video content will take a big step forward Thursday with the launch of a new section , dubbed Watch .
The new tab , which Facebook said late Wednesday will launch for a limited number of U.S. users for now , will feature about 40 original series , with plans to eventually scale up to hundreds of shows .
Facebook said it will become available to more users in the coming weeks .
The Mountain View , Calif. , social network is hoping to tap into lucrative TV advertising revenue to boost its ever-expanding bottom line .
If successful , Watch could stem the ad-load slowdown for the rest of the year that Chief Financial Officer David Wehner warned about last month when Facebook filed its quarterly earnings .
Facebook also hopes the Watch tab will open up a new method of advertising that does n't clutter users ' News Feeds , and keep its 2 billion users on its site longer .
Facebook said it will finance some of the shows itself at first , `` to help inspire creators and seed the ecosystem . ''
TechCrunch reported that the company will take 45 % of the ad revenues from videos produced by its partners .
In May , Reuters reported that video-content producers such as Buzzfeed , Vox Media and Group Nine Media were developing shows for Facebook .
After introducing a `` Video '' tab last year , Facebook said Watch will `` make it even easier to catch up '' with favorite videos from outside users ' News Feeds .
`` Watch is personalized to help you discover new shows , organized around what your friends and communities are watching , '' Daniel Danker , Facebook 's director of product , said in a statement Wednesday .
`` Watch is a platform for all creators and publishers to find an audience , build a community of passionate fans , and earn money for their work , '' Danker said .
Shows will be organized into sections such as `` Most Talked About , '' `` What 's Making People Laugh '' and What Friends Are Watching . ''
When it debuts , Watch will feature a range of comedies , reality shows and live sports , such as : `` Daily Nas , '' where the rapper Nas interacts with fans ; `` Tastemade 's Kitchen Little , '' a humorous how-to cooking show where children share recipes with professional chefs ; `` Returning the Favor , '' in which former `` Dirty Jobs '' host Mike Rowe rewards people who 've helped their communities ; and weekly Major League Baseball games .
In a not-so-subtle poke at one of its top competitors , Watch will debut on the same day Snap Inc. -- which lately has been battered by Facebook-owned Instagram -- reports its quarterly earnings .