Facebook Stock Offers 40 % Upside
Facebook reported its Q2 2017 earnings on July 26 , after the market close .
The strong quarterly performance was all over the news , and it 's no secret that the Mark Zuckerberg led social media giant crushed Wall Street estimates .
The strength of the earnings report was also reflected in the post earnings movement of FB stock , which changed hands at an all time high of $ 175.5 in the immediate trading session following the earnings announcement .
The all-time high represented a gain of 6 % over the previous closing price , as investors cheered Facebook stock higher .
Four weeks post the Q2 earnings announcement , the picture is n't quite the same .
Facebook stock closed the last trading session at a price of $ 167.74 a share , two dollars higher than its pre-earnings close on August 26 .
The pullback , in combination with the strong revenue/earnings growth Facebook reported , has brought Facebook valuations to attractive levels .
Before you write us off for calling Facebook valuations attractive , let us explain .
Facebook Valuations Near Historic Lows
The recent fall in Facebook 's stock price has brought Facebook valuations to near all time lows .
Yes , at 38x TTM earnings , Facebook stock is trading at the lower end of its valuation range over the last 5 years .
Facebook 's valuation , over the last 5 years , is summarized in the table below .
Wall Street expects Facebook to report FY2018 EPS of $ 6.48 a share , which implies a forward price-to-earnings multiple of 25.9 x , which is significantly below a 30 % discount the lower end of Facebook 's historical valuation range .
Valuing Facebook at the lower end of its valuation range , at 36.6 x the FY 2018 estimate , Facebook stock could be worth $ 237 a share , which translates to a nearly 41 % upside from the last closing price .
Sounds too good to be true ?
Well , let 's look at Facebook stock from another angle .
Bringing Growth Into the Equation Starting with the first quarter of this year , Facebook started to report only a clean GAAP EPS number .
Hence , it 's important to look at the GAAP numbers to factor in Facebook 's growth .
Facebook reported GAAP EPS of $ 3.49 in FY 2016 .
Using the FY 2018 estimate of $ 6.48 referenced above , Facebook earnings are expected to grow at an average of 36.2 % through FY 2016 to FY 2018 .