Fox in Talks With Ion Media to Operate Local TV Stations , Source Says
- Joint venture is said to include Ion , Fox-owned stations
- Fox is said to mull moving affiliation from Sinclair channels
21st Century Fox Inc. is in talks to operate local television stations across the U.S. with Ion Media Networks Inc. , potentially paving the way for Fox to dump Sinclair Broadcast Group Inc. as an affiliate partner , a person familiar with the situation said .
Closely held Ion would contribute its more than 60 independent stations to the joint venture , while Fox would throw in its 28 local stations , which include big markets such as New York and Los Angeles .
As part of the deal , Fox would consider switching its affiliation to Ion from Sinclair for 26 stations that are up for renewal this year , said the person , who asked not to be identified .
Fox may also seek to switch 14 stations owned by Tribune Media Co. , which is being acquired by Sinclair , upon the change of control , the person said .
By doing the deal as a joint venture , Fox could also retain some control over TV stations without having to include the slow-growing local-broadcast business in its financial statements .
While such a move would hurt Sinclair , RBC Capital Markets analysts Leo Kulp and Steven Cahall said there 's also reason to believe it may be a `` negotiating ploy '' by Fox .
Sinclair , based in Hunt Valley , Maryland , did n't respond to a request for comment outside of normal business hours , while Chicago-based Tribune declined to comment .
`` Based on what we know , we believe it 's too early to become overly negative on this , '' the analysts wrote in a note to clients .
`` Although we will watch the situation , as it could be a meaningful negative . ''
Sinclair shares tumbled as much as 9 percent , while Fox inched up 0.2 percent as of 9:51 a.m. in New York trading .
Tribune fell as much as 3.9 percent , the most in almost seven months .
Many TV stations around the country are owned independently of major broadcast networks like Fox , yet carry their programming under affiliation agreements .
Ion , which emerged from bankruptcy in late 2009 , does n't currently have affiliation deals , instead relying on syndicated reruns and some original shows to fill its programming grid .
Fox , controlled by billionaire Rupert Murdoch , has been concerned about Sinclair 's $ 3.9 billion acquisition of Tribune , which is awaiting regulatory approval .
The combined company , with 233 stations , will have even greater negotiating leverage on how to split fees paid by cable providers .
Sinclair has also been creating more of its own programming , including conservative commentary , that competes with Fox 's own shows .
Unlike Sinclair , Ion does n't have significant local news operations .
That could be a challenge if Fox chooses to switch to Ion stations , since many viewers still tune in nightly expecting to get their news and weather reports .
Fox had considered teaming up with Blackstone Group LP to create a rival bid for Tribune , contributing Fox 's TV stations to a joint venture , but the idea was scrapped .
The negotiations between Fox and Ion are still in progress and a deal is n't certain .
The potential combination of TV-station owners like Sinclair , Tribune and Fox was made easier this year by the Federal Communications Commission .
The agency restored a rule that eases limits on how much of the country can be covered by one station owner .