Twenty-First Century Fox Earnings : Cable Performance Offsets Film Weakness in the Fourth Quarter
Twenty-First Century Fox reported fourth-quarter and full-year results after the market closed on Aug. 9 .
The following table provides a comparison between key fourth-quarter metrics with those from the quarter in fiscal 2016 :
The average analyst estimate had called for EPS of $ 0.35 on $ 6.77 billion in sales , so the company beat the earnings estimate but fell short of the sales estimate .
The drop in quarterly earnings looks quite worrying on its face .
However , the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 saw the company 's adjusted EPS enjoy a $ 0.07-per-share boost thanks to a favorable tax ruling .
With that benefit taken out , quarterly EPS was down roughly 5 % year over year .
Looking at the full-year picture , annual EPS increased roughly 14 % to $ 1.61 on sales of $ 28.5 billion -- up roughly 4 % year over year .
Read on for a more in-depth breakdown of Fox 's fourth-quarter and full-year results .
Cable networks stole the show
Despite a weak film slate , Fox was able to record earnings growth in the fourth quarter thanks to improved domestic revenues from channels including Fox News , FX , and FS1 , as well as a 9 % increase for both international advertising and affiliate fees .
The following table breaks down the company 's segment performance for the fourth quarter :
Fourth-quarter operating income for the cable networks segment grew roughly 19 % year over year , while television operating income was down 5 % , and filmed entertainment shifted into the red after posting $ 164 million in OIBDA in the prior-year period .
Fox 's cable network segment saw a 10 % sales increase , driven by higher advertising sales and fees cable carriers paid to the company .
However , there was also a 7 % increase in expenses at the segment .
According to the company , the increase in expenses was driven by higher costs for sports programming and production and marketing costs for National Geographic .
The cable networks segment delivered these impressive results even as the number of overall domestic paid-TV subscribers fell roughly 500,000 in the quarter .
In the filmed-entertainment segment , both television content and movies contributed to year-over-year declines , but theatrical sales were probably the bigger problem point .
Fox 's film slate was weak compared with the prior-year period , and with soft sales for key 2017 releases including Alien : Covenant , Snatched , and Diary of a Wimpy Kid : The Long Haul , weighed on performance in the recently wrapped quarter and fiscal year .
What 's next for Fox ?
This comment from Executive Chairmen Rupert Murdoch and Lachlan Murdoch lays out the company 's general outlook on its future :
`` The investment we have made in our video brands , and in programming that truly differentiates , is proving to be the right strategy .
It is driving the value of our brand portfolio across both established and emerging distribution platforms and reflects our deep commitment to creative excellence across all of our entertainment production businesses .
In addition , the outstanding performance of our live news and sports programming drove advertising growth for the year and continues to set our business apart .
What we achieved in 2017 sets us up well for this year and beyond . ''
Thus far , strong ratings for the company 's core domestic channels and international growth have made its cable networks segment resilient in the face of cord-cutting , but the likelihood of an eroding cable base remains a looming challenge .
With regard to movies , Fox recently suffered another setback because of the underperformance for War for the Planet of the Apes and is in need of new hit franchises -- though it does have a number of promising projects in the X-Men and Avatar series on the horizon .
Fox investors should also watch the company 's attempt to complete its purchase of Sky , a telecommunications and media company that primarily operates in Europe .
The media industry , along with technology and telecom , is undergoing a big consolidation push , and closing the Sky deal could be important to Fox 's competitive future in light of AT&T 's pending merger with Time Warner and Disney 's push to launch its own over-the-top streaming services .