Fox Defends ` Transformation ' in Reply to Call for Board Shake-Up
- Investor seeks changes in wake of sexual-harassment scandal
- Murdoch group faces shareholder meeting , U.K. ruling on Sky
Rupert Murdoch 's 21st Century Fox defended its internal `` transformation '' in response to a shareholder call for a board shake-up following a sexual-harassment scandal at its news division , according to a letter sent by the entertainment group .
The chair of Fox 's nominating and corporate governance committee , Viet Dinh , said the company had taken steps to improve its human-resources efforts and governance in a letter to Dieter Waizenegger , the executive director of CtW Investment Group , seen by Bloomberg News .
The move counters the shareholder 's call for a board shake-up , including the hiring of more women , and new measures on human resources and controls .
The exchange comes ahead of a shareholder meeting in Los Angeles on Nov. 15 , and as Fox tries to convince U.K regulators that it has high enough standards to acquire broadcaster Sky Plc .
It 's a reminder of the battle the Murdoch-led group has waged against lawsuits alleging sexual and racial discrimination .
The company has had to make changes in its successful Fox News line up , allowing competitors like MSNBC to rival it at times .
`` The transformation of Fox News is proof that our long-held commitment to a diverse workplace is a key driver of success throughout 21st Century Fox -- where , incidentally , women serve as the Chair and CEO at the film studio , the television studio , and television network , '' Dinh wrote in the letter .
He said that a new global chief of human resources had been named for the parent company as well for Fox News , and that Fox overhauled management and the reporting structure at its news unit .
` Civil and Respectful '
The tone was set from the top of the organization by Chief Executive James Murdoch and Executive Co-Chairman Lachlan Murdoch , who 've `` led the effort to instill appreciation of a civil and respectful workplace , '' Dinh said , urging employees to report concerns about harassment or discrimination without retaliation .
The message had been spread across the company in a number of ways through training , including of all the employees at Fox News .
The company in its letter said its board was already engaged in a process to enhance diversity by adding more independent directors .
`` Watch this space , '' Dinh said while offering to meet the investors .
`` The magnitude of the sexual and racial harassment crisis demonstrates a tone at the top that is permissive of unethical behavior and a troubling lack of attention on the part of the Board to the company 's human capital management practices , as well as the associated risks to the company 's reputation , operations , and long-term value , '' Waizenegger wrote to Dinh on Oct. 12 in a letter seen by Bloomberg News and first reported by the New York Times .
CtW also called for a shake-up of the board , including the resignation of Australian businessman Roderick Eddington , a former chief executive of British Airways Plc. , who it said failed in risk-oversight responsibilities .
The shareholder wants two new directors added with HR experience , more independent directors and a decrease in insiders .
Among the changes it called for were greater gender diversity at board level , noting only 8 percent of the board is female .
The lone female board member is Delphine Arnault , deputy chief executive of luxury goods group t Hennessy Vuitton .
CTW suggested she also resign from some of her outside positions , and that Fox increase the percentage of female board members to at least 30 percent in the next two years .