Fox , MSNBC Neck-and-Neck in Ratings as Viewers Monitor Trump
- Murdoch 's network still leads , but Maddow scores key victories
- Fox recovers after third-place finish in weeknight audience
Fox News and MSNBC are finishing the month of May in a dogfight for the viewers advertisers prize most .
Rupert Murdoch 's Fox News , which contributes an estimated 20 percent of 21st Century Fox Inc. 's profits , continues to get the biggest audience overall by far , according to Nielsen research cited by the network .
But the bulk of those viewers are older and considered less lucrative to advertisers .
MSNBC 's Rachel Maddow was the top draw at 9 p.m. among viewers ages 25 to 54 for the third straight month , and her network won that demographic in prime time on weeknights for the first time since 2000 .
Fox still won in all age groups for the full week including Saturdays and Sundays .
MSNBC , whose audience leans to the left , is benefiting from high interest in the various controversies surrounding President Donald Trump 's administration .
Fox News ' viewership has also surged from a year earlier , but the channel , which appeals to conservatives , has been criticized for avoiding news stories that paint Trump in a negative light and for promoting conspiracy theories .
The criticism has focused mostly on Fox 's prime-time lineup of commentators , including host Sean Hannity .
Tucker Carlson , who replaced top-rated host Bill O'Reilly when he departed last month under a cloud of sexual-harassment allegations , finished second to Maddow in the advertiser-friendly demographic .
Carlson 's show was slightly ahead of MSNBC 's `` The Last Word with Lawrence O'Donnell '' in the category .
Among total viewers , Carlson ranked first and Maddow second .
`` Maddow 's gains are not Fox News ' losses , '' said Brian Wieser , an analyst at Pivotal Research Group .
`` Both are growing , but clearly MSNBC 's audience base is more animated versus where they were last year . ''
He advises buying 21st Century Fox shares and does n't have a rating for MSNBC 's corporate parent , Comcast Corp. .
Shares of New York-based 21st Century Fox have dropped 3.6 percent this year , while Philadelphia-based Comcast has gained 20 percent .
Fox has had to contend with turmoil in its prime-time lineup and management .
In the past year , the network has lost three of its biggest stars -- O'Reilly , Megyn Kelly and Greta Van Susteren .
Kelly jumped to NBC , while Van Susteren is now at MSNBC .
In a sign of how tough the competition has become , Fox fell to third place in the younger advertising demographic for the five-day week that ended May 19 -- the first time that had happened since July 2016 .
The network recovered in the week that ended May 26 , finishing first .
The ratings reveal the weakness in CNN 's prime-time lineup , with none of the network 's shows making the top five among 25 - to 54-year-olds .
Among total viewers , its biggest program was `` Anderson Cooper 360 , '' which placed 20th .