Fox Sports buys Impression , bolsters naming-rights sales
Fox Sports has acquired Impression Sports & Entertainment , a Denver company specializing in college deals that it previously brought in to help sell Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum naming rights .
Financial terms were not disclosed .
Impression Sports , whose brand name remains intact , is now part of Home Team Sports , Fox 's sales group , which sells television and digital media sponsorships for regional sports networks across the NBA , NHL and MLB .
The assets of Home Team Sports extend to Fox Sports College Properties , which holds multimedia rights for six schools and the Big East Conference .
Overall , the merger positions Fox Sports as more of a full-service company in sports marketing with naming-rights expertise .
About a year ago , Home Team Sports , acting on recommendations from mutual acquaintances , hired Impression Sports President Chris Foy to assist in its effort to sell naming rights to the Coliseum .
`` I brought Chris into those negotiations because we were n't making progress and we needed his expertise , '' said Kyle Sherman , president of Home Team Sports .
`` We hit it off when we first met .
We shared the same values and philosophies to drive sponsorship value for our clients . ''
The relationship between the two agencies grew to the point that principals began discussions on a merger over the past several months , Sherman said .
On its own , Impression has brokered the naming-rights deal for Camping World Stadium in Orlando as well as title sponsorship of college bowl games and a jersey sponsor for the MLS Colorado Rapids , among other deals .
Impression Sports , formed six years ago , has four employees in Denver , and the company plans to keep its office there and add sales staff , Foy said .
Its current clients include Orlando City SC , which hired the firm to help sell naming rights for its new downtown stadium , which opened in March .
Orlando City SC is asking for $ 4 million to $ 6 million annually , team officials said .
Home Team Sports officials see their reach growing with Impression Sports to pursue naming-rights deals in the big leagues in addition to what they already do in the college world .
Their competitors include Premier Partnerships , Legends , Van Wagner Sports & Entertainment and Gemini Group .
`` Through our relationships with the Fox-owned regional sports networks , we can take advantage of that position and compete with virtually any company in the industry , '' Sherman said .