Berkshire Cuts 21st Century Fox Stake , Adjusts Airline Bets
Warren Buffett 's Berkshire Hathaway Inc. spent the first quarter fine-tuning its investments in airlines and technology companies , and retreating from 21st Century Fox Inc. .
In a filing Monday detailing its stock portfolio at the end of the quarter , Berkshire no longer listed Fox .
Holdings in American Airlines Group Inc. and Southwest Airlines Co. increased , while a stake in Delta Air Lines Inc. was reduced .
Buffett previously disclosed that he boosted a bet on Apple Inc. in the first quarter as he pulled back from International Business Machines Corp. .
Buffett was a net buyer of stocks as 2017 began , adding more than $ 7 billion worth of securities in the first quarter .
While U.S. equity markets have been rising for years , making it harder to find bargains , the 86-year-old Berkshire chairman and chief executive officer continues to say stocks are a good investment because interest rates are low .
`` Buffett has an overall optimistic outlook for the economy and the stock market , '' said David Kass , a professor at the University of Maryland 's Robert H. Smith School of Business who has taken students to meet the investor .
`` This is consistent in that direction . ''
Berkshire took the stake in Fox at the end of 2014 .
It amounted to about $ 250 million at the end of last year , ranking among the firm 's smaller holdings .
The media company has contended this year with allegations of sexual harassment at Fox News .
Reports by the New York Times that Bill O'Reilly had settled allegations led advertisers to boycott his show , ultimately forcing Fox and the popular host to part ways in April .
Fox News accounted for an estimated 20 percent of the parent 's profit in 2016 .
A Fox representative declined to comment on Berkshire 's filing .
Buffett 's company also boosted an investment in Bank of New York Mellon Corp. by half during the quarter to 33 million shares .
It was worth more than $ 1.5 billion as of Monday 's close of trading .
Not all picks in the portfolio are Buffett 's .
In 2010 , he brought on Todd Combs , a former hedge fund manager , to help him pick stocks .
A year later , the billionaire hired another money manager , Ted Weschler .
The filing does n't show which person is responsible for each holding .
In general , the deputies tend to make smaller investments than their boss .
For much of his career , Buffett criticized airlines as terrible businesses , a view he revised last year , as his company built stakes of more than $ 2 billion in each of the four largest U.S. carriers .
Airlines are filling more of their seats than before , and labor relations have improved , the billionaire investor told his shareholders this month .
Berkshire 's stake in Delta declined 8.3 percent to 55 million shares .
A holding in Southwest increased 10 percent to 47.7 million shares , and a stake in American grew 8.2 percent to 49.3 million shares .
Berkshire 's stake in United Continental Holdings Inc. remained unchanged at about 29 million shares .
One of his biggest changes during the quarter was previously disclosed .
In February , he said he 'd boosted Berkshire 's stake in Apple .
At the end of the first quarter , the holding was valued at more than $ 19 billion , making it one of Berkshire 's biggest stock investments .
The filing on Monday did n't include the most up-to-date information on two of Buffett 's other major investments .
In April , he said he was selling a small portion of Berkshire 's stake in Wells Fargo & Co. to keep it under a threshold that would have invited more regulatory scrutiny .
This month , he disclosed that he divested about a third of his IBM stock .
At Berkshire 's annual on May 6 , he said his analysis of the company was `` wrong '' and that the company had underperformed his expectations since he spent more than $ 10 billion amassing the holding in 2011 .
Even as Berkshire 's stock picks are closely watched by investors , they 've become less important to the company 's overall performance .
During the past two decades , Buffett has focused more on acquisitions than stocks to generate growth .
Berkshire 's dozens of subsidiaries include auto insurer Geico , Dairy Queen , Fruit of the Loom and railroad BNSF .
Early last year , Buffett completed one of his biggest acquisitions , the $ 37 billion buyout of Precision Castparts Corp. , a supplier to the aerospace industry .