Hakuna Matata : Why Disney & Fox Would Both Benefit From a Deal
With renewed hopes that Walt Disney ( DIS ) and 21st Century Fox ( FOXA ) are approaching a deal , Macquarie is out with a note on the topic , writing that a horizontal merger would n't encounter too much regulatory resistance , and it would be good for both companies .
The firm writes that it makes sense for Fox , which would be retreating into live content , as it lacks an over-the-top ( OTT ) strategy .
After the proposed deal , Fox would be left with a US-centric TV network business centred on Fox News , Fox Sports networks , Fox Business , and the Fox broadcast network and local stations .
And then there is the some $ 60 billion in pre-tax cash that the controlling Murdoch family could use to do `` practically anything with . ''
Some options include taking the company private , or bringing Fox back into the News Corp ( NWSA ) fold .
( Note : News Corp owns Dow Jones , the publisher of Barron 's . )
As for Disney , the deal would also be good news , as it would provide the company with scale and distribution , which are more important than ever :
`` Owning a second major studio could help Disney build out its OTT platform due to launch in 2019 with more content , and owning a majority stake in Hulu would give Disney control of this SVOD service as well as a potentially large virtual bundle to help offset cable sub declines .
Equally important , this would give Disney a much bigger international TV presence at a time when its brand equity is growing through its films and parks .
Star would open up India as a huge market opportunity , including Star 's cricket rights and an immensely popular OTT app , Hotstar .
And Sky presents an intriguing option as a leading distributor of TV content in 5 countries in Europe , plus building out OTT service in more .
Lastly , we wonder if Disney buying much of Fox would set up a surprising succession plan once CEO Bob Iger leaves in 2019 : James Murdoch . ''
Shares of Disney are down 1 % in recent trading , while Fox is up 0.2 % .
Piper Jaffray also likes the idea of Disney and Fox reaching a deal .