O'Reilly 's $ 32 Million Settlement ` News ' to Me , Murdoch Says
- FOX CEO says there are behaviors that are not to be tolerated
- Takeover of Sky expected to be cleared next year , he says
James Murdoch , chief executive officer of 21st Century Fox Inc. , said he was unaware of a $ 32 million settlement that Bill O'Reilly is reported to have paid to end a sexual harassment lawsuit while he was a star at the company 's news network .
The New York Times reported over the weekend that Fox knew of the woman 's complaints when it renewed O'Reilly 's contract a month after he struck the $ 32 million agreement in January .
O'Reilly , the most recognizable face of Fox News for much of its 21 years , and the company parted ways in April .
`` It 's a big sprawling business , '' Murdoch said Wednesday in an on-stage interview at the Paley Center for Media in New York City .
`` The settlement was n't a company settlement and it was news to me when we saw that number the other day . ''
The renewed focus on the allegations against O'Reilly comes at a sensitive time for 21st Century Fox .
The U.K. 's Competition and Markets Authority is looking into issues of corporate culture as part of its review of the New York-based company 's 11.7 billion-pound ( $ 15.4 billion ) bid for Sky Plc. .
Murdoch said he still expected regulatory approval would come in the first half of 2018 .
O'Reilly said in a statement he had been `` maliciously smeared '' by the New York Times report .
He added that no one ever filed a complaint about his behavior with human resources or the legal department while he worked at Fox .
Ailes Departure
O'Reilly 's exit from Fox was preceded by the departure Roger Ailes , who resigned in July 2016 as head of Fox News .
Ailes was the subject of a lawsuit filed by a former anchor , Gretchen Carlson , who claimed she was fired for refusing his sexual advances .
Ailes , who died in May , denied the allegations .
`` We 've made a decision that is clear and I hope sends a really strong signal to all of my colleagues , to everyone in the industry , that actually there are behaviors that are not to be tolerated , '' Murdoch said .
In 2012 , Murdoch was criticized by U.K. regulators for his handling of phone-hacking allegations at tabloid newspaper the News of the World , while he was executive chairman of News Corp. 's News International unit .
`` The pattern that has emerged time and time again is intense lack of curiosity , '' said Steven Barnett , a professor of communications at the University of Westminster .
`` The more this goes on , the more echoes there are of the questions around governance that were asked after the phone-hacking scandal . ''