Three important takeaways for investors in the Disney-Fox deal
- A complicated transaction means investors may not yet appreciate its value
There 's a lot more to Disney 's proposed purchase of Fox 's entertainment assets than meets the eye .
For a guide to what it really means for investors , I recently checked in with Robert Routh , who covers the media sector for FBN Securities .
I 've known Routh for over a decade , and during that time he has put several great media-sector calls in my columns -- like Playboy ahead of its buyout ; and Madison Square Garden on its initial public offering in 2010 .
Both were extremely profitable trades .
Routh also predicted many of the terms in Walt Disney Co. 's deal with 21st Century Fox in a note published just ahead of the transaction announcement .
Here are three key takeaways for investors , in the proposed Disney-Fox deal .
Takeaway No. 1 : Disney suddenly looks cheap
I 've been suggesting shares of Disney under $ 101 in my stock newsletter , Brush Up on Stocks , on the theory that worries about the impact of cord cutting on ESPN were overblown because , sooner or later , Disney would figure out how to navigate the new world of content delivery .
Besides , it has lots of content , so it has a strong hand in this game .
Now , buying the entertainment businesses of 21st Century Fox looks like a master stroke for Disney for three reasons .
1. It 's a sign Disney is finally getting its act together in the new world of online content delivery .
That 's because the deal will give Disney 60 % ownership of Hulu , a video content delivery platform .
This puts Disney fully in charge .
So it can strategically develop Hulu to knock heads with Netflix Hulu has n't significantly challenged Netflix so far because there were `` too many cooks in the kitchen , '' says Routh .
Besides Disney and 21st Century Fox , NBCUniversal owner Comcast and Time Warner all own a piece of Hulu .
But no single owner had control .
`` So they all had different ideas about where to go with Hulu , '' says Routh .
Assuming the Fox deal goes through , Disney can take command and bulk up Hulu to confront Netflix .
`` Hulu is not valued anywhere near where Netflix is , '' says Routh .
`` If they can do even half as well as Netflix , imagine where this can go . ''
Owning a commanding stake in Hulu will also give Disney a currency to trade with pipeline companies like Verizon Comcast , AT&T and Charter to help it get access to internet fast lanes for content delivery , now that net neutrality is gone .
Disney , for example , could offer a stake in Hulu .
2. The Fox deal would put the `` Star Wars '' movies under the same roof , including the early movies currently controlled by 21st Century Fox .
It would also unite Marvel characters , by bringing X-Men and the Fantastic Four back into the Marvel Entertainment fold .
Marvel is a division of Disney .
The upshot : More content can be leveraged across Disney 's huge asset base of theme parks , and distribution platforms like Hulu , the Disney Channel , SKY TV in Europe and Star India .
3. Disney will gain 22 regional sports networks , which it can package with ESPN and run through its BAMTech streaming platform .
Disney has also said it expects $ 2 billion in costs savings after the merger , much of it in the first year .
It says it will also buy as much as $ 20 billion worth of stock to help offset dilution caused by the deal .
Takeaway No. 2 : 21st Century Fox now trades for an 18 % discount
To understand where 21st Century Fox should be trading based on the deal terms requires some math .
So bear with me , but it 's worth it if it helps you make money .
The starting point is that 21st Century Fox 's Class A and Class B shares trade at an average stock price of around $ 34.50 , as of the close on Dec. 15 .
These non-voting Class A shares and the voting Class B shares trade for slightly different amounts but that 's roughly the midpoint .
Next , all 21st Century Fox shareholders both classes will get 0.2745 of one Disney share , for each Fox share they own .
Since Disney closed at $ 111.27 Dec. 15 , that means they get $ 30.50 in value for each Fox share .
So far , they 're down $ 4 on the deal , as their shares now trade for about $ 34.50 .
But they 're also getting the new version of Fox , of course , meaning the collection of broadcast assets remaining after Disney buys the entertainment assets .
How much are those assets worth ?
The company says the broadcast assets Fox shareholders would be left with -- let 's call it the `` new Fox '' -- had annual operating income before depreciation and amortization ( OIBDA ) of $ 2.8 billion through June 2017 .
What multiple should you put on this ?
The closest comparison for the new Fox is CBS Corp. which typically trades at about nine to 11 times OIBDA , says Routh .
Using the midpoint of 10 means the new Fox would be worth $ 28 billion .
But there 's a twist .
The separation of the two companies is a taxable event , and the tax bill lands on Disney .
To make up for this , the new Fox would pay Disney $ 6.5 billion to $ 8.5 billion , depending on what the corporate tax rate is .
I 'm going to assume tax reform in Washington , D.C. , brings the tax rate down to 21 % .
This means the tax bill for new Fox should be around $ 6.5 billion .
The company will borrow roughly that amount to cover the payment .
That makes the value of the new Fox $ 28 billion minus that $ 6.5 billion , or $ 21.5 billion .
Since 21st Century Fox has 1.87 billion shares , the value of the new Fox is $ 11.50 a share .
Add that to the $ 30.50 worth of Disney shares that Fox shareholders will receive , and you get $ 42 .
But 21st Century Fox currently trades for $ 34.50 , an 18 % discount .
`` The market has not captured all of the value that this deal creates , '' says Routh .
This valuation may actually be conservative for two reasons .
First , it 's based on an old OIBDA number , and Fox is growing .
Second , there 's another twist in this deal .
Since this is a taxable transaction , the new Fox gets to step up the value of its assets .
That means it can write them down all over again .
This gives the new Fox a $ 1.5 billion annual `` tax shield '' for 10 years , says Routh .
So the new Fox will be converting more OIBDA to free cash flow than CBS .
That means our use of the mid range of the CBS OIBDA multiple ( 10 ) is probably erring on the safe side .
Other advantages in the deal for Fox shareholders : The new Fox will pay a dividend .
And management will probably buy back stock if the shares trade at a significant discount .
So , why the big discount ?
First off , as you noticed , the above valuation analysis is complex .
A lot of investors probably have n't figured it out yet .
Next , the deal will take one to two years to complete .
And it has to be approved by regulators .
It will probably go through .
But you never know .
The only way the $ 34.50 valuation on Fox shares makes sense right now is if you assume it pays $ 8.5 million to Disney to cover the tax , you value it at eight times OIBDA instead of 10 , and you assume Disney shares fall to $ 93 , sharply reducing the conversion amount for Fox shareholders .
But Disney shares should rise , not fall , because of the deal .
Takeaway No. 3 : Content companies suddenly look more valuable
Until now , big video content distributors , such as Netflix Inc. Amazon.com Inc. Alphabet Inc. 's YouTube and Facebook Inc. have gotten a free ride on the internet .
They sucked up a lot of bandwidth with their streaming movies and cat videos .
But they have n't fully compensated the pipeline companies , which include Comcast and Verizon .
All that changes with the end of net neutrality .
Now , the pipeline companies can more freely charge the content providers .
And you can bet they will .
As a defensive maneuver , content companies can bulk up on original programming .
This will give them bargaining leverage .
They can say , `` Go ahead and slow down access to our content , but your users are going to complain . ''
This dynamic helps explain why Disney wants to buy the entertainment assets of 21st Century Fox .
It also explains why Facebook recently signed a deal with World Wrestling Entertainment Inc. for original programming .
`` These companies are getting smart and saying , ` We better get some libraries and some real content , ' '' according to Routh .
They might buy content companies outright to do so .
Potential targets here include : Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. AMC Networks Inc. Discovery Communications Inc. Viacom Inc. . MGM Holdings Inc. World Wrestling Entertainment and MSG Networks Inc. which Disney might want to buy to combine with its ESPN and the regional sports networks it gets in the Fox deal .
The relative scarcity of original content companies improves the odds of a deal .
`` There is only so much of it out there , '' says Routh .
At the time of publication , Michael Brush had no positions in any stocks mentioned in this column .
Brush has suggested DIS , FB , AMZN , GOOGL , T and LGF.A in his stock newsletter Brush Up on Stocks .
Brush is a Manhattan-based financial writer who has covered business for the New York Times and The Economist group , and he attended Columbia Business School in the Knight-Bagehot program .