What 's Behind GE 's Move From the Connecticut Suburbs to Boston
General Electric Co. is trying to reinvent its business in almost every way .
It has shed much of its once lucrative financial-services arm to refocus on massive machines like jet engines , power turbines and CT scanners .
It is hiring thousands of software programmers and investing in 3-D printing .
It ditched the annual employee performance review .
And it is moving .
GE is building a new headquarters on the Boston waterfront , uprooting itself from more than 40 years in the woods of Connecticut .
After considering multiple cities , GE will get an incentive package from the city and state valued at as much as $ 145 million for moving 200 jobs and ultimately having about 800 at the headquarters .
Moving is part of GE 's history .
The 125-year-old firm has previously been based in upstate New York , as well as Midtown Manhattan .
It moved to Connecticut in 1974 .
Although its new office building wo n't be finished until 2019 , executives have moved into temporary Boston offices .
The company has n't wasted time in adopting its new home city .
It has pledged a $ 50 million donation in the next five years for causes including Boston public schools and fighting the opioid epidemic in the region .
It also cut a three-year deal with the Boston Celtics to provide data , analytics and equipment , and to put its logo on their uniforms .
Chief Financial Officer Jeffrey Bornstein , a 28-year veteran of the company , helped lead the charge to Boston .
The 51-year-old native of Maine joined GE the same year he graduated from Boston 's Northeastern University .
From Boston , he spoke about breaking with the past , the changing role of the corporate staff and his new lunch options .
Edited excerpts follow : 
WSJ: Moving a company like GE is rare .
When did you first think about relocating ?
MR. BORNSTEIN : I would say there were moments in the past when we really asked ourselves whether Connecticut made sense for the company .
There was n't a huge ecosystem around the company .
We lived on a very beautiful property in Fairfield , but very isolated .
Attracting talent there was a bit of a challenge .
For younger folks maybe not the most dynamic place in the world .
WSJ : You were wooed by multiple cities .
How did you balance financial incentives against whether a location was a good cultural fit ?
MR. BORNSTEIN : We started with the cultural purpose .
I would say that was more important .
There are upward of 500,000 kids who go to school -- undergrad and graduate school , doctorate -- every day here in greater Boston .
People forget about it , but the first technical revolution in this country really happened here in Boston .
There definitely is an innate culture and tactical depth and talent here .
It lends itself to these kind of entrepreneurial endeavors .
The universities here , whether it 's MIT , Northeastern , Harvard , you name it ... the proximity allows us to build even deeper relationships with these institutions .
The financial stuff was the second priority .
To be quite frank , we were looking for a financial package that was good enough .
We just needed an amount of financial support that would make the cost of moving and relocating as small an impact on shareholders as possible .
Boston did n't offer the most money , not even close .
There were others that offered more , but we did n't see the same cultural fit and dynamism that we saw in Boston .
WSJ : Does relocating to an urban environment let you redefine the role of headquarters ?
MR. BORNSTEIN : Over the last three or four years , we 've thought more deeply about the role of corporate , what it does that brings value and helps make our businesses more competitive .
We felt like there was a bit of a disconnect .
Over time , the corporate team had grown fairly extensively and maybe was n't always focused on the things that were critically important to making our business more profitable .
That has caused us to rethink what activities we do in corporate and whether they bring value .
The size of corporate has shrunk pretty dramatically over the last three or four years .
I think it will continue to get smaller .
We 'd like to have a very lean corporate team focus just on those activities that are critical to the company .
We really do n't want any superfluous resources out there .
WSJ : How did cost factor into bigger decisions , like location , and in smaller ones , like design and details ?
MR. BORNSTEIN : At a minimum we wanted this to be an opportunity to rethink what work we do .
The actual physical move , having to stand up a new facility , new labs , huge research facilities -- we wanted the cost and the investments , after incentives , to be something that was quite reasonable .
I think the net cost to shareholders will be , everything considered , pretty de minimis .
WSJ : Did you play any role in the design ?
MR. BORNSTEIN : Yes , I 'm involved very much with that team in terms of design and feel .
It 's enormously exciting .
If you saw where we were in Fairfield County , it was a morgue .
Very little activity .
I hated it .
Even in our temporary space , the offices are open .
There 's a lot more interaction .
You are n't calling people who are four offices away .
You can get up and go , and physically grab the folks .
We 're translating those experiences to the new facility .
It will be very modern , green and open .
MR. BORNSTEIN : Yes .
Millennials , this is the kind of environment they want to work in .
They do n't want to work in the environment that was paneled walls , and , based on your level in the company , you could count the ceiling tiles and that determined the size of your office .
That 's the world of the '70s , '80s , maybe the early '90s .
Young talent today want to be in a vibrant , open , interactive , high-tech , fun kind of space .
That 's how we thought about design in the new facility .
WSJ : Was it always going to be in a city ?
MR. BORNSTEIN : Yes .
From the get-go we knew we wanted to be in a place that was vibrant and entrepreneurial , where you could walk out your door enriched by your environment and your ecosystem .
I can walk out my door and visit four startups .
In Fairfield , I could n't even walk out my door and get a sandwich .
We knew we wanted to be in a more urban environment where we could actually participate in the ecosystem and be smarter and more aware as a result .
WSJ : Were there challenges that were surprising to you in this process ?
MR. BORNSTEIN : The traffic here can be pretty ugly .
Not that the Merritt Parkway in Connecticut is a piece of cake .
You 've got people commuting by train , by boat , people who drive , people who take the metro .
Sometimes coordinating a meeting can be a little bit of a challenge , but no different than New York City .