GE Drops After Immelt Predicts Challenges to Hit 2018 Targets
Earnings target for 2018 would be high end of range , CEO says Company faces obstacles in oil industry , equipment pricing Jeffrey Immelt .
Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Immelt , under pressure from activist investor Trian Fund Management to boost profit , is giving shareholders little reason for optimism .
The industrial giant will have to stretch to meet a goal of earning $ 2 a share next year as it contends with challenging conditions in the oil industry and headwinds in equipment pricing , Immelt said Wednesday at a conference with analysts .
If there 's no improvement in the resource markets , profit of that level next year `` would be at the high end of the range , '' he said .
Immelt 's comments amounted to a `` subtle walk back '' of the 2018 target even though it was n't officially cut , Cowen & Co. analyst Gautam Khanna said in a note .
GE first proposed the figure two years ago and Trian said last month that the Boston-based company should be able to surpass it .
The earnings uncertainty adds to the pressure on Immelt after several quarters of weak results and GE 's 11 percent slide in the stock this year through Tuesday .
Immelt already was in the `` hot seat '' after a worse-than-expected cash-flow performance in the first quarter alarmed investors , RBC Capital Markets analyst Deane Dray said in a report last week .
GE turned negative as Immelt spoke .
The shares fell 2.1 percent to $ 27.69 at 1:37 p.m. in New York , erasing earlier gains .
That was the biggest decline on the 30-member Dow Jones Industrial Average .
Trian Pressure The most important market news of the day .
Trian , one of GE 's largest shareholders , has called on Immelt to reduce expenses and improve operations .
The activist investor said last month that GE had a path to earn as much as $ 2.33 a share next year if it hits cost targets and continues to generate sales growth .
That suggestion contrasted with increasingly bearish analysts , who anticipate earnings of $ 1.88 a share , according to the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg .
Following talks with Trian earlier this year , GE said it would cut costs more aggressively and reduce management bonuses if it fails to meet certain financial goals .
Asked Wednesday about succession , Immelt , 61 , declined to detail his future plans .
`` We 've got a very deep bench , '' he said at the Electrical Products Group conference in Longboat Key , Florida , Trian , founded by Nelson Peltz , Ed Garden and Peter May , did n't immediately respond to a request for comment .
Seeking Payoff Now in his 16th year at the helm of GE , Immelt is trying to arrest the stock slide as investors look for a payoff from the widely praised shift he led in recent years away from finance and toward industrial manufacturing .
Spotty global economic conditions and an oil-industry slump have kept pressure on sales and cash flow .
In a spirited exchange during the presentation 's question-and-answer portion , Immelt defended GE 's performance and highlighted plans for 3 percent to 5 percent organic growth .
He said this is one of the only times in his tenure as CEO that he strongly disagreed with the stock price , along with market dislocations in 2001 and 2009 .
`` Today , when I think about where the stock is compared to what the company is , it 's a mismatch , '' he said .
After Deutsche Bank AG downgraded the stock this month , GE closed as low as $ 27.41 last week , a level not touched since October 2015 .
`` Nobody likes how the stock 's traded this year , but it 's up to us to execute , '' Immelt said .
GE has as much as $ 12 billion in `` unallocated capital '' for uses such as acquisitions , he said .
The Boston-based company expects to close a deal to merge its oil and gas business with Baker Hughes Inc. by early July , he said .