Why GE Will Not Be Impacted By U.S. Withdrawal From Paris Climate Agreement
General Electric is one of the major wind turbine producers across the globe , and its renewable energy products sell in more than 20 countries .
Renewable energy is among the fastest growing segments for GE , and its renewable energy revenues increased nearly 34 % in 2016 due to the acquisition of Alstom , also aided by renewable energy growth in advanced economies .
President Trump announced recently that he had decided to pull the United States out of the Paris Climate Accord .
Although this may sound like an immediate threat to multinationals operating in the renewable energy segment , we expect very little or no impact on General Electric in the short term .
Here 's why : Renewable energy contributes just 7 % to GE 's overall revenues , and about 3 % to its overall profits .
Government support for renewable products may weaken in the near term , but this is unlikely to make much of a difference for a company as big as GE .
Most of GE 's growth in renewable energy is likely to come from Europe due to the acquisition of Alstom , which has a very high backlog .
U.S. withdrawal from the climate agreement should have no impact on that .
GE can no longer rely on the U.S. government to drive adoption of renewable energy .
However , this should not matter much for GE , as many states have already announced their continued commitment to the Paris accord targets .
Additionally , GE has operations in more than 20 countries outside of the U.S. , which are unaffected by the U.S. decision to back out from the agreement .
President Trump has said that he will renegotiate the terms of Paris climate agreement .
Even if the negotiations fail and U.S. fully pulls out of the Paris accord , it may still take several years .
Thus , it should n't have any short-term implication on sales of GE renewables .
One possible threat to GE could be that developing economies such as India and China also back out of the accord and move towards traditional energy sources .
This could hamper GE 's renewable sales , but that again would be very insignificant as Asia contributes just 9 % to GE 's renewable sales .
Lastly , GE has a significant presence in the traditional energy market as well , which should mitigate any downside to its renewable business .
Currently , there are a lot of unknowns on the Paris agreement , but the crux of the matter is that most of GE 's value comes from other businesses right now , not renewables .
Also , GE CEO Jeff Immelt said recently that the industry must now lead and not depend on governments in renewable energy production .
We do n't see any change in plans for GE in terms of its renewable energy strategy , and given the company 's size and diverse portfolio of businesses , we do n't foresee any notable impact of the U.S. withdrawal from the Paris Agreement for GE .