General Electric : Can Aviation Make It Fly ?
General Electric 's aviation business is likely to stick around even the industrial giant 's new CEO starts shedding pieces of the company .
That 's a good thing .
The bounce that General Electric ( GE ) got after announcing that CEO Jeffrey Immelt would step down is fading away as investors remain concerned about the pace of change at the industrial giant .
Can its aviation business help turn it around ?
In this past weekend 's issue of Barron 's , my colleague Jack Hough argued that incoming CEO John Flannery '' looks like the conglomerate 's best chance to reinvent itself in years . ''
That likely means shedding part of the business -- Hough mentions health care , lighting , and oil and gas as possible spinoff candidates -- and focusing on power generation and transportation .
One part of the business that is likely to stick around is General Electric 's aviation business , which `` represents one third of company earnings , '' say Credit Suisse analyst Julian Mitchell and team .
They dig in :
`` We attended GE 's investor meeting in Paris earlier today , comprising updates from Aviation and GE Capital Aviation Services .
Aviation represents one third of company earnings , but it has been the biggest segment EBIT growth driver for GE in recent years , by some distance ( growing profits at a double-digit digit rate in each of the past four years ) .
Management sounded upbeat on the demand / top-line growth outlook , and reiterated that operating margins should remain flat ( we expect a 100-200bps adjustment to margins from the accounting change ) despite the LEAP engine production ramp , with FCF margins potentially increasing as working capital turns rise ( the accounting change will not affect the segment 's cash flow ) .
Management are relaxed regarding the threat of a broader widebody slowdown , and the LEAP appears to be entering into service as smoothly as any engine can be expected to ( it is not flawless , but continues to see far fewer teething problems relative to the Pratt GTF ) , with production likely to increase sequentially in Q2 .
Aviation profit growth is likely to slow to a mid-single-digit CAGR in the next few years , in our view , owing to Mix headwinds .
Although in common with Honeywell International ( HON ) and United Technologies ( UTX ) , GE is turning up the heat on its suppliers ( Additive Manufacturing will help it - $ 3.9 bn of productivity savings from 3D printing have already been identified , against an initial target last year of $ 3-5bn eventually ) .
We believe Aviation 's share of company profits will likely expand , as we see the exit of certain other assets as Mr. Flannery starts to re-shape GE 's portfolio .
This should be helpful for the valuation of the overall company , given Aviation 's high profitability and cash margin levels . ''
Shares of General Electric have dropped 2.3 % to $ 28.15 at 11:53 a.m. today , while Honeywell International has fallen 0.7 % to $ 134.93 , and United Technologies has advanced 0.3 % to $ 122.23 .
The Industrial Select Sector SPDR ETF ( XLI ) is off 0.6 % at $ 68.67 .