Pratt 's $ 10 Billion Jet Engine Lags GE by 10-to-1 on New Orders
- United Technologies unit trails 10-to-1 in orders for A320neo
- Company has chance for comeback with 1,500 planes up for grabs
Pratt & Whitney 's $ 10 billion bet on a new jet engine is faltering after a troubled rollout , and buyers are rushing to a General Electric Co. model instead .
The GE turbine has won 10 times as many orders this year to power a narrow-body Airbus SE plane on which the two suppliers compete head to head .
Pratt has signed just one buyer in that span to supply its geared turbofan engine for the aircraft , according to data provided to Bloomberg by Flight Ascend Consultancy .
The figures paint a stark picture for Pratt and parent United Technologies Corp. , which billed the so-called GTF as a technological breakthrough that was supposed to help reverse GE 's recent market dominance .
Instead , weak demand for the engine is fueling doubts about the long-term payoff of Pratt 's most important product .
`` It reflects a concern about the engine and where it 's going to go from its rather checkered start , '' said aviation consultant Robert Mann .
The GTF has `` had its share of teething problems and those have yet to be sorted out .
And even if sorted out , it 's delaying a lot of aircraft deliveries .
It gives people who made the initial choice of the GTF pause . ''
Customers ' decisions about engines for the Airbus A320neo are crucial , because of the one-on-one matchup with GE and the plane 's importance for airlines .
Along with the Boeing Co. 737 , the single-aisle A320 family is a workhorse of the global jetliner fleet , far outnumbering the wide-bodies used on long-haul routes .
The A320neo , Airbus 's latest version of the aircraft , will be flying for decades .
That represents a long-term revenue stream for engine makers , which rely partly on service deals to recoup heavy initial investments .
While the geared turbofan has met performance specifications in areas such as fuel burn , it has also been beset by manufacturing hurdles , delivery delays and technical glitches .
Airlines such as IndiGo , India 's largest carrier , have been forced to ground planes because of Pratt 's problems , while Airbus is struggling to meet its delivery commitments for the A320neos .
Pratt is rolling out fixes this year for durability issues affecting a carbon seal and combustor .
A slowdown in orders has been `` deliberate to some extent '' as the company focuses on addressing the issues , United Technologies Chief Financial Officer Akhil Johri said in an interview last month .
The Farmington , Connecticut-based company invested $ 10 billion to develop the engine .
Order Book Pratt , which also supplies the GTF to planemakers other than Airbus , has more than 8,000 orders on the books , Chris Calio , president of commercial engines , said in a statement .
He reaffirmed the goal of producing 350 to 400 of the new engines this year .
`` We are confident in the long-term value of our GTF program , '' he said .
`` We are aggressively addressing our entry-into-service issues and are focused on minimizing the operational impact on our customers as we ramp production . ''
The durability issues plaguing the GTF have compounded the problems for Pratt , which fell short of its delivery goal last year as it struggled with availability of some components .
Some airlines have been forced to take planes out of service while waiting for fixes .
About 46 percent of A320neo jets powered by the GTF were out of service for at least one week in the past month , compared with just 9 percent of those using GE 's engine , according to a report Monday from UBS Group AG analyst David Strauss .
GE Gains The geared turbofan competes to power the A320neo family with the Leap , a new engine from CFM International Inc. , a joint venture of GE and France 's Safran SA .
Pratt 's engine is also the lone option on planes such as Bombardier Inc. 's C Series , while the Leap is the exclusive power plant for Boeing 's 737 Max .
Pratt signed a deal this year with British Airways owner IAG SA to supply engines for 47 of the Airbus planes .
Including an eight-plane cancellation in the first quarter , Pratt has signed net orders to power 39 A320neos in 2017 , according to Flight Ascend data through early August .
By contrast , the Leap was selected for 396 planes .
GE 's dominant performance came after it won 66 percent of the decisions last year , Flight Ascend data show .
That 's pushed GE 's share of all A320neo engine orders to 60 percent , after running for years close to Boosting market share is n't GE 's primary focus , said Rick Kennedy , a spokesman for the aviation division .
The company 's attention is on controlling costs and `` executing on the deliveries '' while increasing production rates , he said .
Earnings Drag While Pratt 's first-half sales rose from a year earlier , profitability fell as the business contended with the costs to ramp up production on the new engine .
That weighed on United Technologies ' earnings .
The shares advanced 5.2 percent this year through Monday , trailing the 8.5 percent gain in the S&P 500 Index .
Pratt still has opportunities to regain ground .
Customers have yet to pick an engine for more than 1,500 A320neos already on order , or about 29 percent of the total , according to Flight Ascend .
The engine maker also has orders to provide the geared turbofan to about 1,000 non-Airbus planes .
If the manufacturer can deliver all the promised engines without major interruptions and prove it can perform well in the long run , the geared turbofan still has a chance to be a success , said Cowen analyst Cai von Rumohr .
Potential customers , meanwhile , can generally afford to sit on the sidelines for now because the large backlog means today 's orders wo n't even be delivered for a few years .
`` Why not wait to see how it 's doing before you step to the line ? ''
he said .