Will General Electric Sell More Assets To Maintain Its Dividend ?
General Electric ( GE ) may have to sell more assets to maintain its current dividend as it battles weak cash flow , and GE investors should brace for more pain after a tough year so far , according to a JPMorgan Chase analyst .
The industrial conglomerate 's fundamentals are `` worse than we think , '' JPMorgan 's Stephen Tusa wrote in a note to clients Thursday .
Against that backdrop , he believes GE 's prized dividends are safe `` for now '' -- but likely not without some tough decisions .
`` GE is already below break-even when it comes to funding the dividend with ongoing free cash flow , with compounding risk if fundamentals come in worse than expectations , '' Tusa wrote .
`` Our sense is that GE will sell assets to plug the near-term hole . ''
But a Morningstar analyst noted in July that Industrial free cash flow turned positive in GE 's second quarter at over $ 700 million , rebounding from the first quarter 's negative $ 2.2 billion .
GE could raise $ 13 billion to $ 14 billion by selling assets in transportation as well as energy/lighting and renewables , and `` some smaller businesses within larger segments that most people have never heard of '' also could be dumped , Tusa said .
He made note of difficult transportation trends into 2018 , including weak locomotive demand in the freight markets , and of low cash margins in energy and renewables .
But if GE 's businesses suffer further in a tougher macro climate , the dividend would be highly vulnerable , `` meaning GE is not a safety stock , '' Tusa -- described by Bloomberg as a consistent GE bear -- wrote .
GE did n't respond to a request for comment .
GE 's high dividend payouts -- the stock currently has a 3.96 % yield -- have made it attractive to income investors .
Many believe the dividend is safe , with the 125-year-old company merely suffering a short-term setback rather than more permanent distress .
But others have recently questioned the safety and sustainability of GE 's dividends .
A Deutsche Bank analyst warned in May that GE 's weak cash flow could mean a cut in dividends , prompting a forceful GE rebuttal .
In his note , Tusa maintained an underweight rating on GE stock and a year-end price target of 22 .
GE shares crumbled 3.6 % Thursday after the JPMorgan Chase report and extended losses on the stock market today , losing 0.8 % to 23.82 .
GE pegged a fresh two-year intraday low of 23.58 .
GE stock is down 25 % year to date , by far the worst performer on the Dow Jones industrial average .
The Dow itself is up more than 10 % so far in 2017 .
GE 's tumbling share price has flattered its dividend yield , but that 's small comfort to investors who have held the stock on the way down .
New CEO John Flannery is expected to present his vision for the future in November as well as a potential reset of GE 's earnings-per-share targets .
One analyst recently suggested that Flannery may shed the health care unit as he puts the company 's vast-but-streamlined portfolio under review .
Under former CEO Jeff Immelt , GE cut loose its financial and certain consumer units and returned to its industrial core , which include the power , aviation , energy and transportation segments .
But those measures failed to revive investor confidence in the company 's overall strategy , leading to Immelt 's exit this year .
Meanwhile , industrial peer 3M ( MMM ) rose 0.6 % , finding resistance at its 50-day moving average within a flat-base consolidation .
Honeywell ( HON ) added 0.4 % , Siemens ( SIEGY ) slipped 0.9 % and United Technologies ( UTX ) shed 0.4 % .
3M and United Technologies , which this week agreed to buy Rockwell Collins ( COL ) for $ 30 billion including debt , are Dow components like GE .