GE 's Expected Q3 Profit Surge May Be Overshadowed By Dividend Fears
General Electric ( GE ) is a leaner , meaner industrial machine under new leadership , but has it been strengthening its free cash flow ?
Investors may find out when GE reports Friday .
At the heart of anxiety about GE 's industrial FCF ( free cash flow ) is the dividend that springs forth from it .
GE currently pays an annualized dividend of 96 cents , translating to a tasty 4.1 % yield .
That has made this Dow component a favorite blue chip for income investors .
But some analysts have warned of a potential dividend cut as GE prepares to report earnings amid major turnover in its corporate leadership .
New CEO John Flannery has slashed expenses and trimmed the portfolio since assuming the reins on Aug. 1 , though the effect on FCF going forward is n't clear yet .
Analysts surveyed by Zacks Investment Research see EPS increasing 56 % to 50 cents as revenue climbs 9 % to $ 31.92 billion .
Organic revenue and industrial orders are two key closely watched metrics .
GE must increase attachment rates on service contracts , which can underpin sustained growth in organic revenue , writes Morningstar analyst Barbara Noverini .
The industrial giant 's profit target of $ 2 per share for next year is another key issue to watch .
Analysts who cover GE , as well as GE management , are turning cautious about its ability to achieve that goal .
The company could address its forecast Friday or reserve the topic for Flannery 's update to investors on Nov. 13 .
Shares of GE slipped 0.1 % to 23.18 on the stock market today , after pegging a two-year-plus low of 22.83 last week .
The stock has plunged more than 25 % so far this year .
Meanwhile , fellow industrial giant Honeywell ( HON ) reports the same day , while Dover ( DOV ) precedes its larger peers with a report Thursday .
Analysts see Honeywell 's EPS growing 4 % to $ 1.74 on a 1.6 % rise in revenue to $ 9.96 billion .
The company recently said it will spin off its automotive turbocharger business as well as its home HVAC , fire and security business , following a portfolio review .
It kept its aerospace business , which hedge fund Third Point has targeted for divestiture .
Analysts expect Dover 's EPS to jump 28 % to $ 1.11 on a 16 % increase in revenue to $ 1.98 billion .
As with Honeywell , progress on efforts to streamline a diverse portfolio will be closely watched .
Dover is considering a sale , spinoff or merger of its upstream energy businesses , known as Wellsite .
Honeywell shares inched up 0.1 % to 143.60 Wednesday and are still in buy range from their Sept. 21 breakout .
Dover fell 0.9 % to 93.24 .