GE is beating some headwinds -- but is it enough ?
Headwind companies are running hard just to stand still , let alone reverse their fate
This year has been an inflection point : the trends driving the radically divergent fortunes of `` tailwind companies '' and `` headwind companies '' are now in plain sight .
Investors are generously rewarding the boldness of the former and doubting the ability of the latter to reinvent themselves .
Still , there are some major risks for investors in betting on tailwind companies at current valuation , and there are underappreciated opportunities in headwind companies that may still have enough time to complete their transformation .
The world 's seven most valuable companies are all tailwind companies : five U.S.-based technology giants and two Chinese ones .
Their technology transformed how we work , interact and entertain ourselves and have developed unassailable positions , as their competitive advantage increases with every user and every additional service that may be cross-subsidized across their platforms .
They are also strongly positioned to shape the next technology waves , such as the Internet of Things , artificial intelligence , robotics or virtual reality/augmented reality , with huge customer base , massive cloud infrastructure and huge share of talent and investment fueling R&D for future technologies .
In short , they are winners in winner-take-all markets .
So it 's no surprise that shares of Facebook Amazon Apple Microsoft and Google parent Alphabet ( the FAAMGs ) have all risen between 30 % and 45 % this year , while Alibaba 's and Tencent 's just about doubled .
Meanwhile , headwind companies are running hard just to stand still , and even so many are falling further behind .
As they struggle to adapt , many are having their `` Kodak moment '' as their core business is shrinking and new investments are too slow to propel them in new areas .
Look at General Electric which is in the midst of a bold transformation .
But with such strong headwinds , it has lost investors ' confidence .
For a long time , GE was the most studied and admired company in the world .
It has an enormous portfolio of industrial assets , many of which remain highly competitive and specialized .
But its energy and power markets in particular are seeing a sustainable decline driven by the growing use of renewable energy .
GE shares have plunged 45 % this year , and the company is trying to regain investor trust by doubling its short-term cost efficiency program .
As GE and other headwind companies try to recover , they must avoid some major pitfalls amid the pressure to achieve quick results .
Despite research showing the long-term view outperforms short-termism , short-termism is getting worse at these firms .
Senior executives are under pressure to deliver every quarter , and many of them are also engaged in a new battleground with activist investors .
As these companies struggle with low organic growth , and desperately work to maintain EPS and dividend growth , they face mostly bad choices .
They can delay investments , squeeze ( weaker ) suppliers , make pricing ever more complicated and opaque ( especially if it helps to charge inert customers more ) , cut back on service quality , or reduce staff .
It 's not that these companies do n't have massive opportunities to improve productivity -- but the right kind of transformation takes longer and requires upfront investment and effort .
This is more than many of these companies ' leaders are willing to stomach , especially when payoffs may come beyond their tenure .
At some companies , their short-termism has tragically imploded .
This is why one of the most successful banks in the world put so much pressure on its people ( and accept such poor customer management culture ) that over 5,000 of them open 2 million unauthorized accounts .
It 's also why some large and rich U.S. cable companies face Senate investigations about their dreadful customer experience , while even Netflix 's lawyers wow customers .
Read the annual letters to shareholders and you can quickly see the difference .
While Amazon 's Jeff Bezos writes about averting complacency , retaining customer obsession , embracing external opportunities and empowering the organization , CEOs at headwinds companies write about their companies ' importance , about dealing with external challenges trends and about simplifying their organization .
Tailwinds companies talk about building ( or refreshing ) a great company .
Headwind companies talk about transforming an important company .
What 's next for headwind companies ?
Headwind companies are finally realizing that like it or not , they are increasingly becoming technology or digital businesses .
Wal-Mart CEO Doug McMillion captured this sentiment when he shared his favorite book of the year , `` The Content Trap '' -- a guide for digital transformation written by a Harvard Business School strategy expert .
Indeed , Wal-Mart was willing to radically rethink its digital strategy when it bought Jet and gave Marc Lore a broad mandate to transform its e-commerce offering .
For a conglomerate of GE 's size , more is needed to manage the headwinds .
At GE , Jeff Immelt hoped his biggest legacy would be in transforming GE into the digital age , and he has spent over $ 1 billion in a software center in Silicon Valley and developed an industrial IoT cloud-based platform ( PaaS ) named Predix .
GE recently announced that Predix will drive $ 1 billion in revenue and $ 400 million in cost-out .
Other Immelt bets such as in 3-D printing referred to as additive manufacturing are also starting to contribute meaningful revenues and helping GE strengthen its cost competitiveness in different businesses .
This is impressive , but for a conglomerate of GE 's size , more is needed to manage the headwinds .
GE 's digital strategy and its ability to pivot to new growth areas , as it has done in the past , most recently by divesting itself of GE Capital , once a major profit center , should be the blueprint for many other companies .
The CEO of one insurance company that makes most of its profit from auto insurance told me not long ago that he is working on shifting everything away from auto insurance before the world realizes such insurance is not needed anymore .
Headwind players should be focused on the right kind of cost reduction .
They should tap into the cost benefits of digital tools , interfaces , and the automation of repetitive work .
They should cut management layers in their organization and reduce lavish expenses by senior executives .
Most of all , If they want to transform , headwind companies must rediscover their belief in growth and inspire their organizations to thrive even in stagnating markets .
When tailwind companies are redefining the standards of customer and employee experience , headwind companies must ensure their cost cuts are transformative and invisible , and is at least partly reinvested in innovation that will stand out to improve customer loyalty , attract top talent and reinspire investors ' confidence .