Who Gets A + For Leadership : Tesla Or GM ?
On April 10 , 2017 , the market capitalization of Tesla , a 14-year old company , surpassed that of 109-year-old General Motors .
That day , Tesla 's market capitalization total shares in the market times the closing price of one share of stock totaled $ 50.84 billion versus GM 's $ 50.79 billion .
Pundits asked : How could Tesla , a company that has never earned a profit be worth more than GM ?
Even in the first quarter of 2017 , Tesla reported earnings per share EPS substantially below market expectations .
In contrast , GM 's EPS was up 37 % -- the highest quarterly earnings ever reported .
Why is Tesla valued more than GM ?
And what does leadership have to do with stock prices ?
Alexander Potter , a Piper Jaffray analyst , said that `` Tesla engenders optimism , freedom , defiance , and a host of other emotions ... ''
Elon Musk is known for his bold , charismatic vision and his passion for protecting the planet .
What is Mary Barra , GM 's CEO known for ?
She 's courageous and a straight talker .
Barra was named CEO just weeks before GM 's 2014 ignition crisis erupted .
Undaunted , she faced accusations directly , admitted mistakes and reached out to families who had lost loved ones .
Fortune Magazine named her CEO Crisis Manager of 2014 .
From 2014 to 2016 , Barra has grown GM 's annual earnings per share from $ 1.65 to $ 6.00 .
Read each CEO 's recent shareholder letters and you see that both are great leaders .
Each is preparing for a 21st century automotive industry where car sharing and car owning coexist , vehicles have computing power , and electric cars drive themselves .
Three qualities reveal why each CEO deserves A + for leadership
1. Barra and Musk embrace change as inevitable -- not fearsome or unnatural .
GM has built systems to engineer and manufacture cars and trucks that in 2016 were sold to 10 million customers around the world .
Under Barra 's leadership , GM is growing profits by standardizing automobile architecture , designing efficient , new manufacturing platforms and anticipating the new globally connected world of mobility .
Musk describes Tesla as the first truly integrated sustainable energy company .
In addition to producing electric cars and inventing powerful new storage batteries , Tesla builds reusable space rockets , and now sells solar roofs .
Musk strives to meet his production numbers , service his products flawlessly and also continues to dream big .
2. Both are visionary leaders who care personally about their companies : Musk 's vision is to make breakthrough products that address climate change and planetary sustainability .
His company expects to release an affordable $ 35,000 electric car sometime this year .
Barra 's vision is to engineer and manufacture self-driving and affordable electric cars that can be sold in China and in the U.S.
Already GM 's Chevrolet Bolt can go more than 200 miles on one electric charge .
The charts below show how much content in each shareholder letter was devoted to describing the CEO 's corporate visions .
Their scores blue were virtually identical .
For Musk and Barra , leadership is personal .
Both see their companies as family .
Musk mortgaged his home and exhausted his savings in the early days to finance Tesla .
Barra 's father was a career GM employee who loved the company and taught his family to love it .
Barra is fiercely loyal to GM and its employees , customers and investors .
3. Each CEO scores high in candor : Musk states up front in his Fourth Quarter & Full Year 2016 update that he is unable to confidently tell investors how many cars Tesla will produce after the first quarter in 2017 .
During GM 's ignition crisis , Barra traveled the globe telling workers : `` Do n't make crappy cars ! ''
Her 2015 shareholder letter , reported on future production targets and also how GM will weather the headwinds facing all automakers in 2017 and 2018 .
How valuable are perceptions of leadership as a predictor of total return performance ?
My company 's 10-year research , which measures the integrity of leadership and corporate cultures , shows that companies scoring high in candid CEO communications significantly outperform -- on average -- companies that score low in CEO candor .
Why is candor an indicator of corporate outperformance ?
One word : Trust .
CEOS like Barra and Musk build trust .