Is GM Abandoning Its Future for Short-Term Profits ?
Since 2015 , General Motors has pulled out of countries and regions representing more than a third of the world 's population .
Some pundits think this is a shortsighted strategy .
In the past few years , General Motors has rapidly retreated from a host of big and/or high-growth markets around the world .
The company has made a clear choice to focus its efforts on countries and regions where it has the most market share and earns the biggest profits , especially the U.S. and China .
To some pundits , this is madness .
By abandoning or sharply reducing its presence in places such as Europe , GM is giving up global scale .
Meanwhile , by exiting high-potential markets such as India , it is sacrificing future growth .
GM plans to sell its Opel brand and exit the European mass market .
However , General Motors did n't have a realistic path to meaningful profits in any of the countries it has exited .
Furthermore , there 's no factual basis for the conventional wisdom that automakers need to be big players in every market around the globe to be successful .
GM 's parade of retrenchment
Since the beginning of 2015 , GM has been aggressively exiting markets and market segments where it does n't think it can earn a reasonable return on invested capital .
During that year , the company virtually abandoned three major emerging markets : Russia , Indonesia , and Thailand .
In all three markets , it now focuses on selling imported SUVs and other low-volume `` prestige '' vehicles .
This year , General Motors has accelerated its retreat from underperforming markets .
In February , it agreed to sell its stake in GM East Africa to Isuzu .
In March , it reached an agreement to sell Opel , its European operations , to Peugeot parent PSA Group .
In April , it exited the moribund Venezuelan market after the government seized its factory there .
Lastly , GM announced earlier this month that it will stop selling vehicles in India and sell its operations in South Africa by year 's end .
These downsizing moves have come one after another .
However , management has signaled that General Motors is now in the right markets for the long haul .
What is GM losing ?
Including the actions announced this year , GM has pulled out of countries representing more than a third of the world 's population since 2015 .
However , while these markets may have `` potential '' in an abstract sense , they have been stubbornly unprofitable despite GM 's patience and years of investments .
GM is investing in new technology instead of emerging markets .
Europe is the most blatant example .
General Motors has lost money there in every year since 2000 .
Europe also serves as a lesson : No matter how good a turnaround plan may seem to be on paper , it 's hard to reach profitability in regions where you 're far behind the leaders in terms of market share .
Indeed , GM had a market share of about 6 % in Europe recently .
GM 's share is even lower in many of the countries it 's exiting .
Most notably , it has a dismal 1 % share of the Indian market .
Thus , GM would have been hard-pressed to capitalize on India 's growth even if it had stayed .
Another lesson from Europe is that having global reach brings limited benefits .
Because of differing regulatory standards , there is relatively little overlap between GM 's European vehicle portfolio and its North American lineup .
The General 's remaining markets are its main ones
Last year , General Motors sold just shy of 10 million vehicles worldwide , of which 7.5 million were in its two largest regions : North America and China .
These are also GM 's most profitable regions by far .
Both sport operating margin roughly in line with the company 's long-term target range of 9 % -10 % .
General Motors also remains committed to South America , where it sold nearly 600,000 vehicles last year .
It 's lost money there for the past several years because of economic weakness and geopolitical upheaval , but it continues to have a market share of more than 15 % in the region .
GM is in the midst of developing a new emerging-markets vehicle platform that will help reduce costs and improve profitability in South America .
Other key markets where GM will stay the course include South Korea and Australia , which together accounted for about 275,000 vehicle sales last year .
Indeed , even after it completes all of its downsizings , GM will still have annual volume of more than 8.5 million units .
While GM will be somewhat smaller going forward , it will have much higher margin .
Rather than investing in perennially unprofitable markets such as Europe , Africa , India , and Southeast Asia , it will be able to ramp up spending on electric vehicles , car-sharing , and autonomous-driving projects .
General Motors also plans to return plenty of cash to shareholders . GM 's willingness to exit major markets under CEO Mary Barra shows that the company is finally being realistic about where it has a competitive advantage -- and where it is an also-ran .
This courageous change of mindset is likely to pay off in the short term and the long term .