General Motors ' Sales Slip on Rental Fleet Cutbacks
Fleet sales were down as planned , while GM 's retail sales were up slightly on strong demand for its popular crossover SUVs .
General Motors said on June 1 that its overall U.S. sales dropped 1.3 % from a year ago , largely due to a planned decline in sales to rental car fleets .
GM 's retail sales rose 0.4 % from a year ago , paced by strong results from its Buick and Cadillac brands .
How GM 's result compared with rivals '
The U.S. new-car market is almost certainly past its cyclical peak .
At this point in the cycle , we expect to see up-and-down results as automakers adjust discounts and inventories in an effort to maximize sales , profits , or both .
GM has so far negotiated these choppy market waters fairly well , generating a strong 11.7 % EBIT-adjusted profit margin in North America in the first quarter .
Some of that is due to the ongoing reduction in low-margin sales to rental car fleets .
But some analysts had concerns about GM 's soft retail results , even while talking up the strong demand for GM 's crossover SUVs .
Strong crossover SUV sales were the story for GM in May .
The new-last-year Cadillac XT5 continues to sell very well , at good prices .
Here 's Kelley Blue Book executive analyst Rebecca Lindland 's take :
GM continues to follow a plan of reducing sales to low-profit daily rental fleet , but at some point their retail business needs to pick up in order to make up for the shortfall in sales , particularly with the Chevrolet brand , which fell nearly 4 % year-over-year and is off 3.2 % for the year .
Cadillac 's 9.2 % increase for May pushed the brand into positive territory for the year , up nearly 1 % .
Buick was buoyed by its small and mid-size crossovers with the Encore , Enclave , and Envision accounting for nearly 75 % of the brand 's sales .
Interestingly , SUVs accounted for over 70 % of Cadillac sales , so both of GM 's premium brands reflect the move in luxury away from sedans and to SUVs .
Not all of GM 's rivals had posted results at press time , but the reports we had showed the mixed bag we would expect .
What 's working and is n't for GM in the U.S. right now
As usual , GM called out the high points of its month in a statement .
Among them are the following :
Retail sales of GM 's crossover SUVs as a group rose 19 % from a year ago .
Retail sales of the Chevrolet Equinox a mix of outgoing and all-new models and GMC Acadia rose 17 % and 33 % , respectively .
The new-last-year Buick Envision had a strong showing with over 4,400 sold , while sales of the new-last-year Cadillac XT5 more than doubled .
The midsize Chevrolet Malibu sedan posted a 40 % year-over-year retail sales gain , in what has been an exceptionally tough market for midsize sedans .
GM said it was the best sales month for the Malibu at retail since October 1980 .
Sales of the small Buick Encore SUV continued to grow , up 12 % in May .
The GMC brand 's average transaction price rose to $ 44,675 , up $ 1,667 from a year ago .
Sales of Cadillac 's big CT6 sedan jumped 44 % , and its big Escalade SUV gained 21 % .
Overall sales of the Chevrolet Camaro rose 35 % .
That 's a big gain : Ford Mustang sales fell 24 % .
GM sold 1,566 Chevrolet Bolt EVs in May , the electric car 's best month since its launch late last year .
GM is still in the process of rolling out the Bolt to dealers in much of the country .
GM 's sales to rental car fleets were down 36 % year over year , in line with the company 's plan to reduce rental fleet sales .
But its more profitable sales to commercial and government fleet customers were up 14 % and 21 % , respectively .
But while it was a good month on balance , not everything is working well for the General at the moment : GM 's full-size pickups , the Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra , sold a combined 60,004 units in May , down 4.2 % from a year ago .
Both of GM 's pickup rivals gained : Ford 's F-Series was up 12.8 % , and FCA 's Ram gained 16 % .
Year to date , the Silverado and Sierra are down a combined 5.6 % , while F-Series is up 8.5 % and Ram is up 8 % .
The Ram outsold the Silverado in May and year to date .
GM is losing market share in this high-profit segment .
While retail sales of the Malibu were strong , overall sales fell 14 % .
Several other GM sedan models were also down sharply , including the Cadillac CTS down 21 % and Chevy Impala down 38 % .
What it means for GM investors
GM 's first-quarter results showed us that its current approach to the U.S. market is generating good margins .
But there are points of concern , including this big one : GM 's inventories are swelling .
As of the end of May , GM had a 101-day supply of vehicles in its U.S. inventory .
That 's much higher than most analysts consider ideal .
For comparison , Ford had 72 days ' worth , a much more comfortable number .
GM reiterated on June 1 that planned factory shutdowns will reduce its inventories by about 100,00 vehicles as the year goes on , and that it expects to end 2017 with about the same days ' supply it had at the end of 2016 ( 71 ) .
But it 's something to watch : Too-high inventories could mean that GM 's sales expectations were too optimistic , and that it might have to resort to heavier discounting along with those plant closures to clear out excess vehicles .
That could hurt margins .
That said , it 's worth noting again that GM 's formula worked out well in the first quarter .
Hopefully , it 'll work out well again when GM reports its second-quarter results in July .