General Motors : Cadillac Sales Are Booming in China
Strong sales at GM 's old luxury brand are helping to offset a small-car slump in China .
General Motors said its sales of Cadillacs in China jumped 65 % in May from a year ago .
It was the 15th month in a row of year-over-year sales increases for GM 's luxury brand in the world 's largest new-car market .
The results helped the Cadillac brand to a 34 % global increase in sales last month .
GM 's overall sales in China were roughly flat in May from from a year ago .
The Cadillac XT5 , introduced in the U.S. and China last year , has been a strong seller .
GM sold over 5,000 in both the U.S. and China last month .
Cadillac is becoming a nice story for GM in China
Though May , Cadillac sales in China are up 85 % from the same period in 2016 .
That gain is being driven by the success of three models : The midsize XT5 crossover SUV has been a big hit since its introduction last year .
GM sold over 5,000 XT5s in China in May , nearly as many as it sold in the U.S. last month ( 5,752 ) .
Sales of the big XTS sedan have been consistently strong and growing as more Chinese consumers become familiar with the Cadillac brand .
XTS sales rose 45 % in May from a year ago .
The ATS-L is a China-only version of the compact ATS sedan .
It has a longer wheelbase than the U.S. version , which gives it more room in the back seat .
That 's crucial in China , where luxury-car owners often hire drivers to deal with the heavy traffic in and around cities like Beijing and Shanghai .
ATS-L sales nearly doubled in May from a year ago , the model 's 11th consecutive month of double-digit percentage sales growth .
GM sold a total of 14,154 Cadillacs in China in May .
That 's more than the 13,211 it sold in the United States last month .
The rest of GM 's China lineup had mixed results in May Overall , GM sold 294,425 vehicles in China in May .
That was down slightly 0.3 % from a record result in May of 2016 .
GM 's Chevrolet and Buick brands have both seen sales slip in China this year , a result of lower demand for small cars in the wake of a reduction to a government incentive program .
The Chinese government has long offered a tax incentive on vehicles with smaller engines , but the amount of that tax break was cut in half as of January 1 .
A lot of buyers rushed to buy before the change , so small-vehicle sales boomed late last year , but have slumped since .
The Buick GL8 , shown here in upscale Avenir trim , is a premium minivan sold only in China .
Sales rose 78 % in May from a year ago .
How GM 's brands fared
Here 's how GM 's China brands aside from Cadillac fared last month .
Buick is still GM 's best-selling brand in China , but its sales fell 6.8 % from a year ago to 94,023 vehicles last month .
The compact Excelle family of vehicles is suffering , but Buick is seeing strong sales of its Envision SUV and of the GL8 , a China-only premium minivan .
The big Buick LaCrosse sedan is also doing well , with over 7,800 sold in China last month versus 3,183 in the U.S. .
Chevrolet sales fell slightly about 1 % to 37,751 sold in China in May .
Again , sales of its smallest models have suffered , but Chevy is making up most of the lost ground with strong sales of larger and more profitable sedans : Malibu sales rose 36 % from a year ago .
GM has just begun rolling out the all-new Chevy Equinox crossover in China , and said it sold `` nearly 4,000 '' in May , its first full month on the market .
Baojun is an affordable China-only brand intended to compete on price with domestic Chinese automakers while offering GM quality .
It has been a big success for GM : Sales rose 47 % to 64,075 Baojuns sold in May .
The small Baojun 510 SUV has quickly become a big seller : over 23,000 were sold in May .
The Wuling brand is in the process of shifting its focus from small vans for commercial buyers to a similar-but-different market : small minivans for young families .
It delivered 84,602 vehicles in May , down 19 % from a year ago .
Through May , GM 's sales in China are down 3.7 % this year from the same period in 2016 .
The small Baojun 510 SUV has been a big hit for GM and its joint-venture partner in China .
How this market is likely to affect GM 's profits China is very important to GM 's bottom line .
GM 's Chinese joint ventures generated $ 504 million in equity income in the first quarter , down less than 3 % from the first quarter of 2016 despite a 5 % year-over-year drop in sales .
The story of the first quarter was that GM 's overall sales totals were down , but it sold a richer `` mix '' of vehicles -- more SUVs and larger sedans , fewer small cars .
Two months into the second quarter , the pattern is holding : GM 's sales in China were down about 1.1 % in April and May combined from the same period in 2016 , but it appears to be selling a significantly larger percentage of SUVs , crossovers , larger sedans -- and high-profit Cadillacs -- versus its mix a year go .
Long story short : GM 's sales in China may be down , but it 's once again on track for a strong profit in the second quarter , thanks in part to its old luxury brand .