GM to add 850 new jobs in Arlington via supplier park
The presence of General Motors in Arlington will expand 1.2 million square feet via two facilities , as city and industry leaders announced Friday the Arlington Logistics Center will open in 2018 .
Here 's the jobs breakdown of the automotive supplier park :
- 1,250 total jobs at the park
- 850 of the total will be new jobs , which are in addition to the 7,000 U.S. jobs GM announced it was adding or keeping in January
- 600 will replace international jobs
`` It 's through a strong supplier-community relations that we are able to create new supplier parks generating benefits to our manufacturing operation and communities , '' said Steve Kiefer , senior vice president of Global Purchasing and Supply Chain for GM .
For GM , it 's a great benefit having its suppliers across the street from its manufacturing plants as they save money on the logistics end .
Kiefer said the company has saved $ 1 billion in the last decade in its logistics costs , in part because of these supplier parks .
GM already has supplier parks next to their manufacturing and assembly facilities in Fairfax , Kansas ; Wentzville , Missouri ; Bowling Green , Kentucky ; and Fort Wayne , Indiana .
In Arlington , the auto-manufacturer makes SUVs like the Chevrolet Tahoe , Chevrolet Suburban , GMC Yukon , and Cadillac Escalade .
Roughly 4,200 are employed there .
Also on hand Friday afternoon were politicians like U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz and Arlington Mayor Jeff Williams , who each boasted about Texas ' tax friendly environment and the redevelopment of the old Six Flags Mall site .
`` This enables us to redevelop a piece of property that was no longer economically viable , '' Williams said .
`` Transforming an old mall site into a logistics center that is projected to generate $ 151 million in taxable sales and purchases over the next decade . ''
`` My No. 1 priority in the Senate is jobs , jobs , jobs , '' Cruz added . ''
... We 're here celebrating 850 new jobs . ''
Because of that business-friendly mindset , GM will get millions in incentives to build its supplier park .
The potential incentive with NP Arlington Industrial would be a a 100 percent abatement of ad valorem taxes on value above the current base real property value for 10 years , city documents said .
Also in the agreement is a $ 6 million grant paid out to the developer over increments provided they reach development goals .
Third , the agreement allows for $ 2 million worth of infrastructure improvements to the project by the city , including side walks and drainage improvements .
The talks for this park began three-and-a-half years ago , said Chad Meyer , president and chief operating officer of Missouri-based NorthPoint Development .
`` I have noticed that , although we had some delays , GM has not pushed out deadline back , '' Meyer joked .
`` So , we 'll be working feverishly ... to deliver this thing on roughly an impossible schedule .
But , if you come back here a year from now , I 'm confident you 'll see people clocking in at the door everyday . ''
The Dallas-Fort Worth region has attracted several large corporate relocations in the past few years as the area 's economy keeps booming .
On Friday , Cruz jokingly tried to grease the wheels for one more while on stage with Kiefer , an SVP of GM .
`` I 'm pretty confident , just over there , '' said Cruz , pointing to his right and turning to Kiefer , `` there 'd be room for a new global headquarters of General Motors . ''