GM Doubles Down On Diesel As 2018 Equinox Gets 39 MPG Rating , 577-Mile Range
A lifetime in the car business , first engineering , now communicating
Flashback to June 2015 .
Volkswagen was the unrivaled leader in sales mainstream diesel-powered cars in America .
The only other brands selling any notable number of diesel cars were the three German premium brands .
VW 's only competitor was General Motors which had sold about 12,000 Cruze diesels over the prior two years with almost no marketing push .
As GM was revealing the all-new second-generation Cruze including a new diesel engine , Powertrain VP Dan Nicholson declared that GM intended to become the U.S. market leader in passenger vehicle diesels .
Three months later all hell broke loose for Volkswagen and it looked like diesel in America might be on the verge of extinction .
Two years later , Volkswagen has paid out billions of dollars in fines and updated millions of vehicles globally and repurchased most of the nearly half million affected vehicles in the U.S. .
It now appears unlikely that VW will ever sell another new diesel in this market and even Mercedes-Benz , the brand that sold the first ever diesels back in the 1920s has largely given up on the technology .
Despite that , it 's way too early to declare either the the rebirth of the demise of the diesel engine .
Since VW was outed for cheating on diesel emissions , Jaguar-Land Rover has added diesel engines to most of its lineup , Mazda has announced a diesel in the new CX-5 and GM has launched the GMC Canyon , Chevy Colorado and Cruze .
Earlier this year , the company announced plans to add its new 1.6-liter `` whisper diesel '' to a pair of its most popular vehicles , the Chevy Equinox and GMC Terrain crossovers .
The manual transmission Cruze diesel got an EPA rating of 52 mpg on the highway and 37 mpg combined .
With the Equinox about to hit dealers , it has achieved a label rating of 39 mpg highway and 32 mpg combined .
That 's significantly better than any of its gas-fueled competitors and it even beats the numbers from the hybrid versions of the Nissan Rogue and Toyota Rav4 .
It 's been about six months since the diesel-powered Cruze sedan went on sale and the results so far could charitably be described as modest .
Sales of compact cars in general have been in a rapid decline of late as customers rush to crossovers and the marketing push for the diesel has yet to begin in earnest .
Perhaps more importantly , the Cruze hatchback will be finally be offered with the diesel with the start of model year 2018 production .
`` American diesel customers have generally shown a preference for five-door models so we expect the addition of the hatchback this fall to significantly boost Cruze diesel sales . ''
said Nicholson in a recent interview .
Prior to the scandal , the Golf and the Jetta Sportwagen were the most popular diesels for VW , with as much as 80 percent of wagon sales so equipped most months .
While it would n't be a surprise to see the Cruze hatchback take the bulk of diesel sales , it 's likely to be the crossovers that really justify GM 's gamble on the all-new 1.6-liter four-cylinder .
GM estimates that the compact crossover segment could hit 3 million units by 2020 with 16 percent of buyers in the segment saying they would consider a diesel engine .
That 's a potential for nearly half a million sales .
The obvious concern is that the blowback from the VW scandal might mar the overall appeal of diesel but Nicholson seemed uncorned .
While the 1.6-liter was designed and launched in Europe months before the VW news hit , GM has n't really been implicated in cheating accusations to date .
According to Nicholson , `` the 1.6 was designed from the ground up to meet the next-generation Tier 3 Bin 125 emissions regulations '' that tighten particulate and NOx emissions even further .
In addition , all new diesels launched since September 2015 have been subjected to road testing of emissions in addition to the traditional lab tests prior to certification .
In addition to tighter emissions and fuel economy regulations , GM put a major emphasis on refinement in order to earn that `` whisper diesel '' nickname .
The engine has a new aluminum cylinder block and bedplate with a structure designed to minimize noise transmission .
Unlike most engines that have the camshaft timing chain at the `` front '' of the engine opposite the transmission , this one is between the engine and transmission so most of the drive mechanism is contained in the bell-housing .
Diesel engines made a huge step forward in noise reduction in the mid-2000s with the introduction of high-pressure common rail fuel injection .
At their introduction many of these systems could deliver up to six separate fuel pulses to provide more control over the combustion process , thus eliminating much of the traditional clatter associated with diesels .
A new in-house developed control system for the 1.6 with even higher resolution enables up to 10 fuel pulses per cycle .
Additional isolation around the cam cover and the injectors further slashes the noise .
When I drove the Cruze diesel sedan earlier this spring , it was easily the most refined engine of this type I 'd yet driven and at the time I had owned a Jetta TDI Sportwagen for seven years .
GM claims the 1.6 is 65 % quieter than the 2.0-liter diesel in the Jaguar F-Pace .
While 137-horsepower may not seem like much , diesels have tremendous low-end torque and the 240 lb-ft generated by the 1.6 easily beats the base 1.5-liter gas turbo in the Equinox and falls just shy of the 260 lb-ft of the 2.0-liter turbo four .
For those with an active lifestyle that includes hauling gear or even towing smaller trailers , it will likely be more than ample .
Nicholson declined to discuss any specifics of future product plans from GM but he did acknowledge that diesels would be a good fit in some of the more popular product segments that GM sells .
We spoke to Nicholson on the same day that Mazda announced its SkyActiv-X engine for 2019 production .
This is currently the first announced production application of a homogeneous charge compression ignition ( HCCI ) engine , a technology that GM among other automakers has been developing for many years .
Nicholson acknowledged that GM is still working on HCCI technology but `` still has n't found the winning formula '' to make it acceptable over a broad range of operating conditions .
As the Mazda engine gets closer to production , GM will be taking a very close look at it to see what they can learn and Nicholson feels it still has long-term potential .
In the meantime , with Mazda and GM both launching mainstream diesel compact crossovers in the coming months , fuel economy in this segment should see a significant boost .
Nonetheless the prospects for the technology remain far from certain .