Volkswagen Is About to Show Its Affordable Electric SUV
Volkswagen Is About to Show Its Affordable Electric SUV VW is expected to announce a new electric crossover SUV next week .
Here 's what we know .
Slowly but surely , Volkswagen 's plans for a range of mass-market electric vehicles are coming into sharper focus .
VW said on Wednesday that it will show a revised version of its `` I.D. Crozz '' concept at the International Motor Show in Frankfurt next week .
The first iteration of the I.D. Crozz , shown in Shanghai this past April , was said to be a preview of an electric crossover SUV that VW is expected to begin producing in about three years .
But it was clearly just for show , with a lot of fanciful details .
The strong hint from VW is that this revised version will feature styling that 's closer to the upcoming production model 's .
Here 's what we know about it and how this electric crossover fits into Volkswagen 's electric-vehicle plan .
What we know about the I.D. Crozz
VW released the artist 's rendering above as a `` teaser , '' a hint as to what the revamped I.D. Crozz show vehicle will look like .
Here 's what the company said :
`` The redesigned concept car is based on the all-electric architecture and is characterised by a clean , powerful design .
The front and rear end designs , in particular , point more in the direction of a production model .
Also defining its styling are the wide bonnet [ hood ] with the front wings [ fenders ] contoured in large radii and the roof whose exterior surface is finished in high-gloss black .
VW also said that the revamped Crozz will share a feature with its sibling , the much-anticipated Microbus-styled I.D. Buzz : a spacious interior for its size , thanks to its compact electric motors and the packaging of its battery pack in the vehicle 's floor .
When it showed the first I.D. Crozz concept last spring , VW said that it had two electric motors providing all-wheel drive , powered by an 83 kilowatt-hour ( kWh ) battery pack that was sufficient to give it 500 kilometers of range ( 312 miles ) on the European electric-vehicle test cycle .
( The U.S. test cycle is more conservative ; that probably translates to about 240-250 miles of range here . )
VW said that the two motors would combine to generate about 300 horsepower .
That 's not enough to call the I.D. Crozz a Tesla fighter , but it should be enough power to make the vehicle a fun daily driver -- assuming that it goes into production in that configuration , of course .
How the I.D. Crozz fits into VW 's electric-vehicle plan
Volkswagen seems determined to establish `` I.D. '' as a sub-brand of its namesake VW mass-market brand .
So far , it has shown three concept vehicles that share the I.D. naming convention and key styling aspects : The I.D. Crozz was preceded by the I.D. , a compact hatchback , and the I.D. Buzz , a striking futuristic take on VW 's much-loved Microbus .
VW has confirmed that both of those vehicles will make it to production -- but not for a few years , as the company is still working on building out the infrastructure and supply chains it will need to make electric vehicles in mass-market volumes .
They 'll begin arriving in 2020 , and they 'll almost certainly have competition by then .
Nissan just revealed its second-generation electric Leaf , and it 's expected to launch an electric crossover and possibly a larger sedan based on the Leaf 's architecture -- along with a faster , longer-range Leaf -- over the next couple of years .
Ford Motor Company has said that it will release a compact electric crossover in 2020 , and there are signs that it 's planning more electric models .
And while General Motors has been very quiet about its plans for electric vehicles beyond its well-regarded Chevrolet Bolt EV , there have been hints that GM has a much more ambitious electric-vehicle effort in the works .
VW 's electrics will begin arriving in 2020
VW said that I.D. hatchback will be the first of the series too arrive , in 2020 .
It subsequently confirmed , last month , that the I.D. Buzz will go into production in 2022 .
There have been reports suggesting that the I.D. Crozz will arrive in between those two , in late 2020 or 2021 , but VW has n't yet made an official announcement .
I expect we 'll have more news on that front when VW presents the revised concept vehicle next week .