Will GM 's Top-Selling SUV Take A Hit From Canadian Strike ?
General Motors ( GM ) workers in Canada who make the auto giant 's top-selling SUV are on strike , though the impact on production is unclear as another factory in Mexico could pick up some of the slack .
The Unifor union 's Local 88 went on strike late Sunday after talks tied to GM 's decision to cut jobs and move some production to Mexico failed .
The labor action involves about 2,450 workers at GM 's CAMI Assembly plant in Ingersoll , Ontario .
The plant produces the Chevrolet Equinox , a compact sport utility vehicle that 's a top seller in its segment in the U.S. , amid consumers ' renewed love affair with SUVs .
Earlier this month , GM reported that its August car sales climbed 7.5 % from a year ago on the back of robust sales of compact crossover SUVs , including a 67 % jump for the Equinox .
Equinox sales have also been strong in China as GM introduced an all-new model for 2018 .
The brand is described as Chevrolet 's global best-selling SUV , accounting for 4,600 deliveries in August in the Chinese market .
GM stock slipped 0.6 % to 38.65 but remains above buy range after a recent breakout off a cup-with-handle base .
Ford ( F ) edged up 0.4 on the stock market today but hit resistance at its 200-day moving average .
Fiat Chrysler ( FCAU ) advanced 1 % for a fresh 52-week high .
Six hundred workers at the Ingersoll assembly plant were laid off in July , after GM halted production of its Terrain SUV in Ingersoll and shifted the entire workload to Mexico .
At the time , the Canadian labor union blamed the North American Free Trade Agreement and lower-cost labor in Mexico for the job losses , while pointing to strong sales of the Equinox crossover and Terrain assembled in Ontario .
Stockpiles of the Equinox model are currently tight , but GM is expected to offset some lost production with its Mexican plant .
The existing contract between GM and CAMI workers expires in September .
The union 's president , Jerry Dias , has signaled that a new collective agreement will hinge on making sure jobs are secured .
GM Canada expressed disappointment that talks on a new agreement stalled and encouraged Unifor to resume negotiations .