GM 's Self Driving Cars Will Be Impressive ... But Not Impressive Enough
We 'll get updates from General Motors ( GM ) this week about its autonomous car progress and how it sees itself fitting into the brave new world of autos , and while its self-driving cars may be farther along than many investors think , Morgan Stanley thinks it will be difficult for GM to exceed rising expectations .
Analyst Adam Jonas and his team reiterated an Equal Weight rating on GM today , writing that while management has taken the `` bold and painful '' steps to move on from its poorly performing businesses and focus on creating long-term value , investors may be expecting too much too soon .
So what 's causing this unsustainable optimism .
Three factors :
`` 1. GM has executed well on its core business -- the things it can control -- in particular , pushing further gains in vehicle mix , correcting high levels of inventory and mitigating loss-making parts of the business through strategic realignment .
2. GM has changed the narrative of the company 's future to one where it can exert technological leadership in key areas such as shared mobility , connected cars , electric cars and autonomous vehicles .
Whether sustainable or not , GM has achieved some semblance of edge in terms of perception in the market .
3. The US and global light vehicle market has simply held up materially better than the market had expected earlier in 2017 .
In particular , the US used car/auto credit environment has held up , and the Chinese auto market continues to delivery strong returns .
GM 's stock has been on a roll , outperforming the broader market by nearly 2x this year and significantly outperforming its chief US peer Ford ( F ) . ''
So what does Jonas expect from the GM event ?
Well , he thinks that all of GM 's major executives will be on hand as the company demonstrates that its self-driving car can navigate a city without any aid from a driver -- he predicts a GM robotic car will drive through downtown San Francisco without any human intervention .
And he also thinks that GM will unveil a timeline for deploying autonomous cars in quarters , not years .
That said , he argues that other auto makers are hot on GM 's trail in this highly competitive market , and while the company has come a long way , it 's too early to claim victory in the ever-shifting auto landscape .