Investors Impressed By General Motors ' Self-Driving Car , But Massive Hurdles Remain
General Motors ' demonstration of its commercial autonomous vehicle ( AV ) capabilities and its declared aim to launch within 2 years was received positively by many investors , although the most negative reaction suggested GM 's plan was far too aggressive .
GM 's demonstration in San Francisco to the media and investment bankers used a Cruise 2nd generation technology Chevrolet Bolt on a 2-mile trip through busy streets .
The trip was variously described as a bit defensive and slow , or like being driven by a tentative 15-year old learner driver .
GM said it expects to deploy fleets of autonomous cars in dense urban areas by 2019 .
It did n't say where , but GM is currently testing 3rd generation self-driving vehicles in San Francisco , Scottsdale , Ariz. , and Warren , Mich. .
GM said it expects cost-per-mile of under $ 1 by 2025 , the key to achieving profitable scale .
The current cost in similar cities is $ 2.5 , according to GM .
Morgan Stanley was the most negative investment bank of those polled .
`` It was courageous of GM to allow investors to have a private peek into its AV world .
The ride was entertaining .
It mostly worked , and will surely improve , but we believe that the last 1 % will be extremely difficult to perfect .
GM 's urgency speaks louder than its targets , '' said Morgan Stanley analyst Adam Jonas .
As autonomous cars are developed , the remaining problems get harder to solve , not to mention the need to develop a legal framework .
It would be hugely impressive to develop an AV which worked 99 % of the time , but nobody is going to buy one that is not 100 % reliable .
Barclays Equity Research said it had heard GM 's targets were going to be unrealistic , similar to plans presented by Tesla , but it emerged from the demonstration believing the technology was real , with a fail-safe mode monitored by a human control center .
`` It was impressive .
There no disengagements .
While the vehicle drove conservatively -- taking time , strictly obeying speed limits , checking carefully at both sides before turning at an intersection -- we 'd also note that the driving environment was quite complex , '' Barclays Equity analyst Brian Johnson said .
Investment researcher Jefferies said the demonstration showed GM and its Cruise technology are leaders in the race for AV mobility on demand , but it was less sure that it would be able to dominate this new market .
The demonstration showed GM 's lead .
`` Riding in the AV Bolt was slightly jarring at times , like being driven by a hesitant learner , but one who can only improve rapidly .
Road and traffic conditions were challenging , safety was prioritized and it felt at times that the main threat came from hesitant or annoyed human drivers in other cars , '' Jefferies analyst Philippe Houchois said .
The news GM would launch in 2 years surprised Houchois , who also pointed to barriers like regulation .
He was also worried that GM might find profits hard to make as other companies entered the market .
`` Our main concern remains that industry fragmentation and competition may drive pricing to lowest marginal cost levels , resulting in attractive services for consumers but relatively low ROIC return on invested capital , '' Houchois said .
Investment researcher Evercore ISI did n't think the 2019 launch date was cast in concrete , with much work still to be done , while it also was n't clear yet if GM had a lead on the competition .
`` The Gen 3 car is also fitted with the redundancies , parallel compute and dual power supplies which GM believes are needed in order to go to the market without a driver .
With the vehicle and hardware theoretically in place , GM believes the critical path to market from here is improving the vehicle 's safety , '' Evercore ISI analyst George Galliers said .
Galliers marked the performance of the Gen 2 vehicle on the San Francisco route as 5.5 out of 10 .
`` Clearly there is still work to do , '' Galliers said .
But Morgan Stanley 's Jonas believed GM 's timetable was too aggressive and the rollout of AV 's will be much slower .
`` In fact , the more we study and experience this topic , the more convinced we are that the inflection point of the adoption curve will be far later than the market may anticipate , '' Jonas said .
`` We believe that stock market expectations for commercialization at scale and profitability may need to be dialed back significantly .
GM is targeting mass commercial deployment by 2019 .
In our opinion , if even 1 % of global miles traveled were executed by cars without a steering wheel by 2030 , that would be an extremely impressive number .
We are talking with many clients who expect 50 % Level 5 total computer control penetration .
While we can not be specific , we 'd add 10 to 15 years to such levels of penetration .
Seriously , '' Jonas said .
Amongst hurdles to be jumped , Jonas pointed to the cost of the Gen 2 or 3 models at between $ 250,000 and $ 300,000 , and he worried about operating costs .
Also the ethical , legal and regulatory issues surrounding artificial intelligence might be the biggest hurdle of all .
Reuters Breaking Views columnist Antony Currie said GM is the only player that has been testing self-driving vehicles in bustling cities , and that puts pressure on likely competitors Uber and Alphabet 's Waymo , as well as Ford and others .
Currie pointed to the possible impact on GM 's bottom line from this business , which could achieve margins of between 20 and 30 % .
`` Much could go wrong .
But shareholders and competitors alike now have to reckon with a company that is no longer their parents ' General Motors , '' Currie said .