Alphabet 's Nest brings smart devices to Australian homes
Alphabet 's Nest Labs has landed in Australia , making available its smoke and carbon monoxide alarm , indoor and outdoor security cameras , and subscription-based footage viewing service Nest Aware .
As of Tuesday morning , Nest 's safety and security products are available for purchase from online services comparison provider iSelect through its new Life Admin ecommerce store .
Nest Protect smoke and carbon monoxide alarm costs AU$ 189 ; the Nest Cam Indoor and the Nest Cam Outdoor are both priced at AU$ 319 each ; and the Nest Aware subscription will be AU$ 14 for the first Nest device , then AU$ 7 per device for every other camera or alarm added to the subscription .
Speaking at Nest 's launch in Sydney on Monday , iSelect MD and CEO Scott Wilson said his company helps Australians with insurance products for when things go wrong , adding that offering safety and security products allows iSelect to move closer to the source to avoid the problem in the first place .
With 110 insurance , finance , and utility companies as partners , a handful have chosen to offer deals via iSelect 's new Life Admin Store , including Optus , which will give customers 25 percent off their mobile broadband connection when they buy a Nest product ; Mate Communicate , which is offering three months of increased NBN speed to use the Nest devices more effectively ; and Sumo Energy , which has reduced Nest customers ' electricity price by 42 percent .
`` iSelect started out as a disruptor ... so what we 're doing with Nest and our core partners is about how do we disrupt the next phase for our customers and bring them better value , '' Wilson explained .
`` There will be a series of products that we will launch , such as with Energy Australia later this month -- we 're working with 110 companies to bring innovative solutions to market . ''
Although it is in the business of smart devices , Nest director of product Maxime Veron said Nest does not consider itself a smart home company .
`` We do n't see ourselves as a platform company or a smart home company ; we believe that Nest will be successful in that market , but a connected home will happen solving one pain point at a time , '' he said , also speaking at the company 's launch .
`` We do n't believe people wake up and say , ` Today I 'm going to buy a smart home solution ' .
Instead , we believe people at one point realise they need a solution to solve a specific paint point ... for example a smoke detector . ''
There are about 200,000 domestic fires in Australia every year , and twice as many malicious home damages ranging from vandalism to robberies every year -- a figure Veron said affects 5 percent of Australian homes .
`` For us , it 's about one product at a time that is really solving a pain point , '' he added .
Google scooped up Nest in 2014 for a cost of $ 3.2 billion , planning to make smart homes a reality by combining Android devices , its developer ecosystem , and treasure trove of data .
`` They pretty much left us alone , which was a great way to set up the relationship and it enabled us to really start growing , '' Veron said of the acquisition .
Nest was born out of a garage in Palo Alto , California back in 2010 .
Before the company 's first product went to market , Nest founders Tony Fadell and Erik Charlton cornered now-Alphabet president Sergey Brin with a video of an early model of the Nest Learning Thermostat .
Google Ventures then led Nest 's Series B round of financing , and in 2012 , its Series C. With both founders spending time in Cupertino -- and Fadell even having a hand in the creation of the iPod -- Veron said there is a similar approach to Nest that Apple takes with its products .
`` One thing we took from our experience at Apple is the only way to create a compelling product experience is to really have all of the software together , '' Veron said .
`` Think about when the iPod was launched , it became a success once you had iTunes and the App Store -- software was more critical than hardware . ''
Veron also mentioned Nest is working with other like-minded companies to bring devices together to create a connected home that leapfrogs what some call the smart home to create what he calls the platform home .
Gartner recently predicted that by the end of 2017 , there will be 8.4 billion connected `` things '' , and 20.4 billion IoT devices expected to be deployed by 2020 .
iSelect 's Wilson expects there to be an average of 30 connected devices per home in Australia come 2021 , in comparison to the 2016 average of 14 .
`` This really puts both of us at the forefront of the connected home , '' Wilson added .