With its India-first approach , Google is trying to woo the common man
Google wants to be the go-to service for the next billion internet users in India .
On Dec. 05 , the internet search giant made a slew of `` India first '' announcements -- some new , some revamped .
This included incorporating lighter-versions of its signature apps as well as freshly-minted ones , additional features on its payments app , and specialised navigation assistance for motorcyclists on Maps , among others .
The tech behemoth hopes these will `` help more people discover how the internet can make life easier and more convenient , '' Caesar Sengupta , vice-president of the company 's Next Billion Users initiative , said .
The announcements were made at the third edition of Google for India , the company 's flagship annual event in the country .
`` We 'll stay focused until every single Indian is connected , '' Rajan Anandan , Google 's vice-president for south Asia and India , said .
Despite being the world 's second-largest internet market , India has around 900 million people who do not have access to the net .
Here 's everything Google said at Google for India :
Google India in numbers
The largest subsidiary of American conglomerate Alphabet , headed by India-born CEO Sundar Pichai , Google has an impressive number of users for its several services in the country , as per the updates it shared on Dec. 05 :
YouTube : Launched in India in 2006 , Google 's video streaming service now has 225 million mobile viewers monthly in the country .
Google Play : Indians account for the maximum activity on the Android operating system 's official app store with up to 1 billion app downloads every month .
Google Stations : The company is now providing free wi-fi to 7.5 million monthly active users at 227 railway stations in India -- that 's more than half of its goal of creating hot-spots at 400 stations by 2018 .
Google will add 22 more stations by the end of December .
Local push : Nearly a third of the search queries in India are now done by voice , and Hindi voice-search queries are growing at over 400 % year-on-year .
Tez App : Within 10 weeks of its launch , digital payments service Tez clocked up close to 12 million active users and carried out 140 million transactions .
The app accounted for over 70 % of the transactions through the government-backed Unified Payments Interface .
However , this momentum could be a short-lived since the Reserve Bank of India is set to allow interoperability for all e-wallet players .
Go for Google Google , like other internet players , has been trying to launch lighter versions of its products , so that they work well on India 's slow internet speeds and on low-end smartphones .
To make deeper inroads , it has launched :
Android Oreo Go : The light version of Google 's latest operating system is designed for entry-level phones .
The devices that run on Oreo Go will have low-bandwidth versions of pre-installed apps , including YouTube , Google Maps , Gmail , and Google Assistant .
These apps will take up less space in the handsets and load 15 % faster compared to their full-fledged versions .
The India launch of Oreo Go comes more than six months after it was first unveiled at Google I/O 2017 , its annual developer festival hosted in Mountain View , California .
Google Go : This app will serve as a `` Getting Started '' manual for those new to the internet , letting them explore by tapping on guiding bubbles instead of typing .
Users will see the latest trending queries and could easily toggle to read the answers in another language .
Downloading Google Go takes less than 5 MB -- less than even some MP3 files -- and search results are optimised to save up to 40 % of data .
Files Go : To free up phone space , this app suggests files to delete -- duplicate photos , low-resolution videos , or unused apps , for instance .
It also allows for offline file sharing .
Reminiscent of Apple 's AirDrop feature , two users who are near each other can send files back and forth as long as they both have Files Go installed .
Payments play In September , Google entered India 's already crowded e-transactions space with its app Tez .
Until now , the service was used for peer-to-peer transactions and payments to merchants .
At the Dec. 05 event , Google announced that Tez will start facilitating bill payments , much like its competitor Paytm already does .
`` More than 70 billers will be supported , including utilities and direct-to-home service providers , '' Sengupta said .
Among the billers included are Tata Power , MTNL , and DishTV , as well as national and state utility providers for electricity , water , and gas .
Maps for bikers
Recognising India 's status as the world 's largest two-wheeler market , Google Maps will now have a special feature : the two-wheeler mode .
`` ... the navigation needs of these millions of riders are different from automobile drivers , '' said Martha Welsh , the director of Google Maps .
`` Two-wheeler mode in Maps gives routes that use shortcuts not accessible to cars .
It also provides customised traffic and arrival time estimations . ''
Powering Jio
Google Assistant , which has thus far run only on smartphones , will be available on a feature phone for the first time .
Google has created a special version of its virtual assistant for Reliance Jio 's `` fully refundable '' Rs1 ,500 4G-enabled handsets .
Assistant will be available on JioPhone in Hindi and English .
`` It can help make phone calls , text , play music and videos , navigate and search the internet and access other apps , '' Gummi Hafsteinsson , Google 's product management director , said .
Led by India 's richest man , Mukesh Ambani , Jio was launched in September 2016 promising `` free '' data during the initial promotional period .
At the end of this period , it would offer the world 's cheapest internet data at Rs50 $ 0.7 per gigabyte GB .
Jio 's subscriber base is now 130 million-strong .
Google 's Assistant is the second such feature on the JioPhone , which already has its own assistant , HelloJio .
But we 're guessing Google 's will be better .