Google 's China Bid Wo n't End Well
AI wo n't fare any better than search .
In 2006 the Chinese government allowed Google to establish Google.cn for Chinese internet users .
In return , Google agreed to scrub results of content that the government found objectionable .
The deal held until 2010 , when Google decided it could no longer agree to such terms .
Within hours , the site was blocked and Google 's search business on the mainland was dead .
The Alphabet Inc. unit never completely gave up on China , however , and last week it launched its most recent effort to capture a piece of the world 's largest internet market .
In Beijing , it 's opening an AI research center ; online , it 's launched a new social media account to support AI developers who use Google 's software tools .
Compared to the politically sensitive search business , this is a subtler approach to succeeding in China 's tech universe .
But like its previous efforts , Google 's latest venture will almost certainly fall short .
Google 's consumer-oriented businesses were always bound to raise resistance in China .
The Communist Party asserts the right to control and monitor the flow of information to its citizens .
That prerogative puts in the government 's crosshairs not only Google 's search operations , but also important Google services such as Gmail , Scholar , Docs and the company 's crucial cloud services .
On the other hand , despite all of the barriers , Google has never '' quit '' China .
Its Android mobile operating system is installed on more than three-quarters of China 's billion-plus smartphones , while the company sells significant amounts of online advertising to Chinese companies looking to reach customers outside of China .
Google has never seemed satisfied operating in this uneasy middle ground in China .
Over the last several years , it 's made several efforts to introduce a Chinese edition of the Play Store , the company 's app marketplace .
But to do so , it -- or its partners -- would need to agree to censor apps in accordance with the Chinese government 's preferences .
So far , at least , it 's shown no such willingness unlike Apple Inc. , which readily censors content on its Chinese app store .
Unable to compete on its own terms in China , Google is now taking a different approach , targeting the country 's growing community of AI developers with a set of open-source tools known as TensorFlow that enable easy deployment of AI .
For example , rather than develop a proprietary set of AI tools , a retailer might customize and deploy TensorFlow 's voice-recognition tools to answer and route customer calls .
TensorFlow has become a hit globally since being introduced in 2015 , garnering nearly 8 million downloads and attracting companies from Airbus to Dropbox .
Uptake in China , where the Chinese government has made dominance in AI a national priority , has been just as enthusiastic .
One analyst found that among the first 5,000 developers who downloaded the tools , more were in Beijing than Silicon Valley .
Google 's reputation as a technology leader certainly helped .
But so , too , has Google 's campaign to cultivate Chinese developers .
In recent months it 's held invitation-only briefings in China on TensorFlow designed to attract influential developers .
TensorFlow 's new account on WeChat , the country 's most popular social media platform , is part of those marketing efforts .
Yet even after those initial victories , Google is unlikely to profit from its AI investments in China .
The first problem is that it lacks an immediate means of monetizing them .
Users of TensorFlow outside of China might subscribe to Google 's paid cloud services to run it .
But in China , Google 's cloud is blocked , forcing TensorFlow users to find domestic servers .
More seriously , the Chinese government is publicly committed to seeing domestic companies dominate the country 's emerging AI sector .
In part , this reflects a `` buy China '' mentality , designed to bolster homegrown champions .
But it 's also a security initiative designed to weed out foreign technology companies from key sectors by 2020 .
China is unlikely to tolerate a U.S. tech giant dominating its AI market -- especially if , like Google , it has a history of challenging Chinese internet policy .
If there were no Chinese competitor to Google , some of these concerns would matter much less .
But China hardly lacks for its own AI companies and one of them , Baidu , Inc. , released a suite of competing AI development tools last year .
According to Bloomberg News , the spread of Baidu 's suite of tools has outpaced that of TensorFlow in 2017 .
And that makes sense : Chinese users are likely to favor the local option , if only because there 's no knowing how long the government will tolerate TensorFlow .
Just because its commercial prospects are cloudy does n't mean that Google should avoid China .
Massive government support for AI ensures that the country will be spinning off AI talent for years , and Google is smart to set up a research lab to attract the best researchers .
Likewise , China 's huge population is creating unparalleled data sets for use in AI research ; Google should want to access as much of that data as the government will allow .
If the company ca n't make money on the mainland , perhaps China can at least help bolster its bottom line in the rest of the world .