Alphabet 's Waymo Adds Semi-Trucks To Its Driverless Vehicle Portfolio
Waymo , created to commercialize Google 's self-driving technology , has turned its attention to heavy-duty trucks and is testing its autonomous hardware and software on a Class-8 semi .
The move by the Alphabet Inc. unit , which is locked in a legal fight with Uber and its automated truck subsidiary formerly known as Otto , is the latest in a series of high-profile projects meant to show off its autonomous vehicle expertise .
Those include a pilot program with Uber 's rideshare rival Lyft and a large-scale public rider program in Phoenix that 's giving hundreds of residents access to self-driving Pacifica Hybrid minivans .
Waymo also has a vehicle supply deal with FCA 's Chrysler and is in talks with Honda to establish a technical partnership .
`` We 're taking our eight years of experience in building self-driving hardware and software and conducting a technical exploration into how our technology can integrate into a truck , '' Waymo said in an emailed statement .
Testing is happening at its private track in California , with road tests to follow later this year in Arizona , the company said .
A test driver will be at the wheel at all times .
Waymo is using a Peterbilt truck .
Johnny Luu , a company spokesman , declined to confirm the location of that California track and the timing of Arizona road tests .
In 2016 startup Ottomotto LLC , co-founded by former Google engineer Anthony Levandowski , demonstrated its own system to automate a Volvo semi with tests in Nevada , followed by a paid delivery of Budweiser beer in Colorado in October 2016 .
Uber bought it in August 2016 for a reported $ 680 million .
Waymo sued Uber and Otto in February , claiming the companies were benefiting from trade secrets stolen by Levandowski , who at the time the suit was filed headed up Uber 's self-driving vehicle R&D .
Uber fired Levandowski this week for failing to comply with a request that he return the stolen material , and he may face criminal charges for his actions , based on a referral of the case by a federal judge to the U.S. Justice Department .
Uber stopped using the Otto name earlier this year , the apparent outcome of a trademark infringement lawsuit brought against the company by Otto Motors , a Canadian maker of automated vehicles for use in warehouses and industrial facilities .
Separately , California DMV officials told Forbes last month that they continue to review testing of Otto trucks on public roads that may have run afoul of state regulations .
Automated semi-trucks are seen by many researchers as a more attainable application of autonomous vehicle tech in the near term , owing to driving conditions on highways that are less complex than in dense urban areas .
Waymo provided no details on its longer-term interests in entering that space .
The company noted that truck driving is among `` the deadliest occupations in America : trucks are involved in accidents that kill over 4,000 people and injure 116,000 more every year . ''
Additionally , applying autonomous technology to heavy trucks can help minimize a driver shortage that currently stands at about 50,000 drivers , Waymo said , citing American Trucking Association data .
For now , the truck testing is just a `` technical exploration '' so that Waymo can get a better understanding of how to modify its sensors and other hardware to work on big vehicles .
When its comes to acceleration and braking , for example , the company noted that Class-8 trucks handle very different than its current fleet of minivans and its tiny two-passenger test cars .
Waymo reports racking up more than 3 million miles of on-road testing in full autonomous mode and billions more miles of simulated driving to perfect the artificial intelligence behind the wheel of its test fleet .
That new semi may just be a test but coming so soon after its Lyft partnership and the ongoing lawsuit , Waymo 's move into trucks suggests it 's targeting areas of mobility that Uber has staked its own future on .