Google age-discrimination lawsuit : nearly 300 people have signed onto class action
A judge 's ruling has revealed the scale of the claim that Google has discriminated against older people by not hiring them .
Plaintiff Cheryl Fillekes , a systems engineer , alleges that Google interviewed her in person for four different jobs , starting when she was 47 , but never hired her , in spite of `` affirmatively '' reaching out to her about positions because of her `` impressive qualifications . ''
Google called the allegations of age discrimination `` without merit '' and said it would continue defending its position vigorously .
`` We have strong policies against discrimination on any unlawful basis , including age , '' said Google spokesman Ty Sheppard .
The company said in a 2015 court filing that its actions with regard to Fillekes `` were motivated by reasonable factors other than age . ''
A judge in the suit , filed in April 2015 , conditionally certified it as a class action last year .
Now , a ruling by Northern California U.S. District Court judge Howard Lloyd has revealed that 269 people have signed onto the class action , claiming Google discriminated against them in hiring on the basis of their age .
A few more claimants will likely add themselves to the class , Lloyd said in the July 27 ruling .
Lloyd 's ruling also limited the information Google can demand from the plaintiffs who opted in to the suit .
`` What 's to be allowed ? ''
the judge asked himself rhetorically .
Google wants lots .
`` The court wants to be fair and give Google limited discovery that will inform it on areas of legitimate interest , but not impose an undue burden on the opt-ins or their attorneys to respond to discovery that may only be tangentially relevant . ''
Google 's wish list included written information from 120 randomly selected plaintiffs and up to 72 in-person depositions of up to three hours .
Lawyers for the plaintiffs wished for a sample of 30 plaintiffs who would respond to requests for information , with 25 of the people deposed by video for up to three hours .
Lloyd said some of what Google wanted `` cast much too wide a net . ''
The judge ordered that 75 of the opt-ins be selected at random to provide written declarations about their claims and alleged damages caused by Google .
The company will be entitled to choose 35 of the opt-ins -- which may or may not include those providing the declarations -- for depositions not longer than three hours .
Only five of the depositions can be in person , with at least 30 done via video , Lloyd ruled .