Google Execs Hunker Down for Summer Fight With EU as Fines Loom
- Seven-year shopping search probe expected to wrap up soon
- Antitrust penalty could top Intel 's record $ 1.2 billion
As European Union officials count the days before their annual vacation , Google 's lawyers and lobbyists are hunkering down in Brussels , preparing for what may be a record EU antitrust fine .
A penalty in the shopping-search probe could come within weeks and many expect it to exceed a $ 1.2 billion fine on Intel Corp. in 2009 .
That would be another show of strength by EU Competition Commissioner Margrethe Vestager who slapped Apple Inc. with a 13 billion-euro tax bill in August .
Google is a top priority case for her as European politicians and publishers push for action against the Mountain View , California-based company that 's come to dominate online advertising .
`` If there 's going to be a fine , it has to be the biggest ever , '' said Stephen Kinsella , a lawyer at Sidley Austin who represents companies that have complained to the EU about Google .
`` The European Commission has strongly signaled that if there is going to be a fine it would need to be at a level that would have deterrent effect . ''
Timing on a decision could slip and Google representatives and the commission both remain tight-lipped , declining to talk about it .
The company has n't yet met with regulators to discuss a potential EU order or how it might implement any changes , according to a person familiar with the probe , who spoke on condition of anonymity .
Major Rulings
But the EU has a long tradition of issuing major rulings just before officials quit Brussels for their summer break .
Last July saw more than $ 3 billion in fines for truckmakers including Daimler AG and Volvo AB .
With one eye on the impending decision , some Google officials have been getting ready , moving vacation dates or making sure they are close to the action , other people familiar with the probe said .
Vestager `` has a keen eye to maximizing the impact of any announcement on a case and July sees a slowdown in the news cycle , '' said Christopher Bright , a lawyer at Shearman & Sterling in Brussels , who 's not involved in the Google probe .
`` Together with the advanced state of preparation of the case , this points to a July announcement for Google . ''
Vestager is n't afraid of big numbers , setting records with the tax bill for Apple -- which it 's appealing -- and the cartel fine for truck companies .
Facebook Inc. may have got off lightly with a mere 110 million-euro penalty for not providing correct information in the WhatsApp merger probe .
Top Spot
Intel holds the top spot for a monopoly abuse with a fine of 1.06 billion euros .
That represented more than 3 percent of Intel 's $ 37.6 billion in sales in 2008 , below the maximum penalty of 10 percent of yearly sales regulators can impose .
As Alphabet Inc. pulled in $ 90 billion in revenue last year , any fine would be capped at $ 9 billion .
But within that limit , the actual size of the fine would be calculated from sales in the market under investigation .
Alphabet 's Google division generated $ 79 billion in ad revenue in 2016 .
While it does n't break out sales for shopping search advertising , ads from search provide most of its revenue .
The EU also factors in how many years the illegal conduct lasted .
Regulators say the systematic promotion of Google 's own shopping search started in 2008 , allowing Google Product Search and Google Shopping grow more quickly than rival comparison-shopping services .
A large penalty and an order for Google to change its ways might just be the start .
The EU is also examining its AdSense advertising service and its Android mobile phone software .
The Android investigation goes to the heart of what Google does in the mobile-phone space , questioning the strict terms Google places on phone makers and app developers to use the software it provides for free .
Cash Pile
While money matters , Alphabet has a cash pile of more than $ 92 billion as of March 31 and any changes to its business model ordered by the EU may `` probably be of more significance , '' said Spencer Waller , a competition law professor at Loyola University in Chicago .
`` I doubt this is going to hamstring the company but the commission is going to order what it thinks is necessary to give competition a chance , '' he said .
EU 's claims that Google Shopping results harm competition `` are wrong as a matter of fact , law , and economics , '' general counsel Kent Walker wrote in a blog post last year .
The EU 's case `` rests on a theory that just does n't fit the reality of how most people shop online '' because price comparison sites are n't the only way to shop around .
Google can appeal , which could take years .
Microsoft only won a 4 percent cut to its fine .
Intel has been waiting eight years for a final ruling .
Vestager 's move against Google is sure to attract further criticism that she 's unfairly singled out U.S. companies .
Transatlantic tensions are already on the rise after President Donald Trump 's decision to pull the U.S. out of the Paris climate accord , adding to concerns over global trade .
`` We 're entering a period in the States where foreign competition enforcement against U.S.-based companies is going to be a matter of more public comment and criticism , '' said Waller .
`` I think you 'll hear similar things '' to the outcry over the Apple tax bill when the Google probe wraps up , he said .
On the other hand , Vestager is under pressure in Europe from companies and politicians eager to see her punish Google .
Complaints about Google continue to pour in to the EU , most recently from publishers about Android software .
And new fronts could open ; Vestager tweeted recently that she 'd be playing close attention to Google 's new ad-blocking feature .
For Google , there could be more summers like this .