Google Leak Reveals Massive Pixel 2 Cancellation
Goodbye ` Muskie ' we hardly knew you .
Yes , there is major news out of Google land today as multiple sources are claiming Google has cancelled plans for its much anticipated Google Pixel XL sequel 
... The ever reliable Android Police delivers the news explaining : `` Based on information from three separate sources , we are now confident that Google has shelved plans to release one of its upcoming Pixel phones .
The device , codenamed ` muskie ' , was intended to succeed the Pixel XL . ''
Benjamin Geskin Google Pixel 2 concept with 18.5:9 aspect ratio display .
So sure is Android Police that it said `` We rate this information 9 out of 10 on our rumor confidence scale '' and confirmed `` We have corroborated this story with several sources we deem reliable '' .
Historically the site 's track record is excellent .
Given the Pixel XL was the best of the two admittedly excellent Pixel handsets Google debuted last year , this development should be terrible news , but there could be an upside .
For months multiple sources have said Google is working on three new Pixel 2 smartphones with the codenames walleye , muskie and taimen and this would mean two models still remain .
So we may get a Pixel XL afterall .
The downside ?
If muskie is canned , then a ` taimen ' Pixel XL might be massive .
Why ?
Because Google likes to use fish as codenames ` Shamu ' , a whale , is the exception for the Nexus 6 and they hint at proportions : 2012 - 4.7-inch Nexus 4 Mako 2013 - 5-inch Nexus 5 Hammerhead 2014 - 6-inch Nexus 6 Shamu 2015 - 5.2-inch Nexus 5X Bullhead , 5.7-inch Nexus 6P Anger 2016 - 5.1-inch Pixel Sailfish , 5.5-inch Pixel XL Marlin Now look at the 2017 codenames : muskies grow up to 17 kg / 38 lbs , walleyes grow up to 11 kg / 24 lbs and taimen can be over 100 kg 220 lbs .
This led many to believe ` taimen ' must be a laptop or convertible , but if the Pixel XL is now taimen not muskie then it is going to be big .
Of course the precedent for this is already here .
Samsung and LG paved the way by supersizing their smartphone displays this year by adopting narrower 18.5:9 aspect ratios with huge 5.8-inch Galaxy S8 , 6.3-inch Galaxy S8 Plus and 5.7-inch LG G6 panels .
Benjamin Geskin Google Pixel 2 concept in black .
Furthermore rumours are Google has moved from HTC to LG to manufacture this year 's new Pixels and the 5.7-inch LG G6 is only fractionally bigger and heavier than the 5.3-inch LG G5 and lighter and smaller than the 5.5-inch Pixel XL .
So the signs are Google could go big without necessarily creating a physically huge phone .
Needless to say this is speculation on my part , but optimistics may well be excited that Google has opted for ` taimen ' over ` muskie ' .
After all if 2017 's flagship smartphones have taught us anything and I include Apple 's enlarged iPhone 8 in this it is size matters more than ever .