` Worse Than KRACK ' -- Google And Microsoft Hit By Massive 5-Year-Old Encryption Hole
It 's just another manic Monday in the cybersecurity world .
First there was KRACK , a vulnerability that allowed for snooping on almost anyone 's Wi-Fi .
Now there 's the plainer-named ROCA -- another complex but dangerous weakness in widely used cryptography found in chips made by German company Infineon Technologies AG .
Fujitsu , Google , HP , Lenovo and Microsoft have all pushed out fixes for their relevant hardware and software , so users should update where they can .
Again .
The problem in the Infineon chips is to do with the vendor 's implementation of the encryption , based in this case on the widely-used RSA standard .
Thanks to the bugs , it 's possible to calculate someone 's private key by just having the public key .
A large number of Google Chromebook and Windows devices created by Fujitsu , HP and Lenovo are amongst those affected .
`` The currently confirmed number of vulnerable keys found is about 760,000 but possibly up to two to three magnitudes more are vulnerable , '' the researchers warned .
They 'll present their full findings at the ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security later this month .
To understand the seriousness of the academics ' findings , a quick recap on the basics of public key encryption is required .
To start , a private and a public key are derived from two large prime numbers being multiplied together .
Those prime numbers must be kept secret and should be incredibly difficult for an outside party to determine , due to the fact that it 's very hard to deduce the factors of the large sum , even if one of the numbers is already known .
But anyone who can get hold of both those original prime numbers can create a key pair and read messages .
In the ROCA hack , the researchers from the Centre for Research on Cryptography and Security , Masaryk University , Enigma Bridge and Ca ' Foscari University crafted a version of an old technique called the Coppersmith 's attack -- ROCA stands for the Return of Coppersmith 's Attack .
It relies on the fact that the publicly-shared number called , by crypto experts , as the modulus can be factored to reveal the crucial primes .
Infineon did n't check that its moduli were n't factorable and so millions of devices are now thought to be vulnerable .
Ultimately , the company 's pseudorandom number generator did n't generate truly random numbers , said University of Surrey cryptography specialist Professor Alan Woodward .
There are limitations to the attacks .
As noted by Woodward : `` It probably is only practical against 1024-bit keys .
2048 is pushing it and higher forget it . ''
The higher the bits , mean the bigger the number , which would be harder to factor and therefore get those prime figures .
The researchers noted differences in the energy it would take to derive private keys too , saying that running an attack via Amazon cloud servers , it 'd cost just $ 76 for the 1024-bit key and about $ 40,000 for the 2048-bit version .
But to former NSA staffer and chief of cybersecurity company RenditionSec , Jake Williams , the ROCA issue is more severe than KRACK .
The latter was only executable within Wi-Fi range , while it 's uncertain as to whether patches will be rolled out widely for ROCA , given it 's a more esoteric issue , he added .
The vulnerability has also been present in affected devices since at least 2012 .
Williams theorized two attacks over ROCA .
First , by abusing code signing certificates , used to validate software is coming from a legitimate , trusted source .
`` Given a code signing certificate 's public key which an organization has to publish , an attacker could derive the private key allowing them to sign software impersonating the victim , '' Williams said .
Given the kinds of attacks that have recently relied on fake software updates remember the NotPetya ransomware and the CCleaner infection , this could be a serious threat .
An attacker could also potentially fool a Trusted Platform Module TPM -- a specialized chip on a computer or smartphone that stores RSA encryption keys - to run malicious , untrusted code , Williams added .
`` The TPM is used to ensure the code used to boot the kernel is valid .
Bypassing a TPM could allow the attacker to perform an inception style attack where they virtualize the host operating system .
There are dozens of other variations of attacks , but these Infineon chips are huge in hardware security modules HSMs and TPMs , '' he warned .
With patches available , users ' and IT teams ' first recourse should be vendor updates .
Infineon , Google and Microsoft all put out notices last week ahead of today 's reveal , which all include advice for concerned users .
Estonia 's national ID card system was also affected , with 750,000 affected by the weakness , opening up the threat of identity theft , according to local media .
Second , it 's possible to check whether keys are vulnerable by visiting https://keychest.net/roca and entering the public key there .
And there 's more advice on the researchers ' advisory .