Google Thinks Beyond Ads at Annual Developer Conference
- Google 's digital Assistant embraces voice-based ordering
- A new chip feeds its cloud service , not the search business 
Google has been trying to move beyond advertising for some time , with mixed results .
At its annual I/O developer conference this year , the company multiplied efforts to make money in different ways .
Google rarely mentions ads during its annual developer show .
But products unveiled at past events usually fed that business , either directly or indirectly .
This year , the most-important innovations support , or hint at , different revenue streams .
Google got 87 percent of first-quarter revenue from ads , compared to almost 90 percent a year earlier .
Google 's ad businesses keep growing , so its other revenue sources have to expand even faster .
The first news Google Chief Executive Officer Sundar Pichai shared during his keynote on Wednesday was one of the company 's first chips designed in-house .
A few years ago , that would have been used to improve online search results and generate more revenue from the text-based search ads that have been the company 's lifeblood .
Instead , Pichai said the component will underpin new cloud-computing services that other companies will pay to rent .
He also highlighted Google 's digital Assistant , saying the voice-based service is increasingly influencing how the company designs its search service .
Later in the day , another Google executive , Valerie Nygaard , unveiled new features that let users order and pay for food and other items through the Assistant .
That gives Google the chance to make money by taking a small cut of future voice-based transactions , rather than just relying on new types of ads .
Indeed , Pichai said in a recent earnings conference call that business models for the Assistant `` will be different than what we have today . ''
The company 's popular Photos app got its first revenue-generating feature at the event , and it also has nothing to do with ads .
Users will be able to order physical books of their favorite albums , starting at $ 9.99 .
Alphabet Inc. 's Google is pursuing different business models , in part because it has become so dominant in digital ads .
That limits future growth opportunities .
Online ads are prone to blocking technology , and can also be more sensitive to economic cycles than subscription offerings like cloud services .
Looming over these initiatives is Amazon.com Inc. , which is grabbing more lucrative shopping searches from Google and is more experienced generating revenue from non-advertising businesses like e-commerce and cloud services .
Amazon is a particularly potent rival in the emerging voice-based commerce business .
The company 's Alexa digital assistant is already taking orders though Amazon Echo speakers .
It also has existing digital payments systems , a network of warehouses and multiple delivery options to get purchased goods to shoppers .
Google was n't built on an e-commerce foundation , Michael Facemire , an analyst at Forrester Research said .
`` That holds them back . ''