Goldman Sachs under fire for Venezuela bond deal that critics say backs the embattled government
- Opposition 's Borges : ` I intend to recommend any future democratic government of Venezuela not recognize or pay these bonds '
- Reuters Protesters demonstrate outside of Goldman Sachs headquarters after the company purchased Venezuelan bonds .
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is on the defensive after it bought Venezuela 's state oil-company bonds held by the central bank there in a transaction the government 's opposition argues is a lifeline to embattled President Nicolas Maduro 's controversial administration .
Goldman 's purchase of $ 2.8 billion in bonds , first reported by the Wall Street Journal on Sunday , comes as Maduro 's detractors , which control the congress , have pleaded with international financial institutions to avoid transactions that might help a government accused of human-rights abuses in a country hobbled by poverty .
Protestors gathered outside the investment bank 's New York headquarters on Tuesday in reaction to the transaction .
But the bank 's investors may have their own beef .
The opposition government has threatened that a successor government could forgo paying the debt .
`` It is apparent Goldman Sachs decided to make a quick buck off the suffering of the Venezuelan people , '' Julio Borges , the leader in the opposition-controlled National Assembly , said in a public letter to the New York bank 's chief executive , Lloyd Blankfein , reported by the Wall Street Journal .
`` I also intend to recommend any future democratic government of Venezuela not recognize or pay these bonds , '' the letter said .
Goldman Sach 's asset-management division last week paid about $ 865 million for $ 2.8 billion worth of bonds -- that equates to 31 cents on the dollar -- issued by state oil company Petroleos de Venezuela SA in 2014 and due to mature in 2022 , according to people familiar with the transaction .
If the bonds do not default , Goldman Sachs stands to reap a whopping 40 % annual yield , which could quiet its investors .
In comparison , the J.P. Morgan Emerging Markets Bond Index EMB has gained 4.93 % in the last five years .
`` The biggest thing is they 're deeply discounted at par .
They have very high yields and the government has shown an extraordinary willingness to pay , even if their cash is tight .
They have made debt service a priority , '' said Daniel Senecal , a credit analyst for Newfleet Asset Management .
In the parlance of money managers specializing in risky bonds , investors are betting on the `` pull-to-par '' trade as the once-discounted bond reaches its face value when it approaches the date of maturity .
Yet for all the potentially rich rewards , the risks may be just as staggering .
The country 's well for repaying debt is drying up .
Plummeting oil prices CLN7 have whittled down Venezuela 's foreign exchange reserves to $ 10 billion , taking away a key contributor to its balance sheet .
Oil sales represent 95 % of the country 's export revenues , but output has shrunk to 2 million barrels a day according to industry estimates , the lowest in around 14 years .
Last week , Oil Minister Nelson Martinez said his government was looking at `` all options '' to raise money it owes to key allies like Russia and China .
Goldman 's position is somewhat puzzling as this particular bond will mature in five years , an unusually long exposure for typical emerging market money managers .
For instance , the time remaining to maturity on the most widely traded Venezuelan PDVSA bond is just a few months , as it was issued in 2010 and is slated to mature in November 2017 , according to MarketAxess data .
Part of the explanation for Goldman 's move is it may be banking on a change of leadership more open to economic reforms that could ensure the means to pay debt , and buoy bond prices .
But if a newly elected government reneges on its debt obligations , as Borges has threatened to do , the trade could go awry .
`` We agree that life there has to get better , and we made the investment in part because we believe it will , '' Goldman Sachs said in a statement to the Wall Street Journal .