Goldman Sachs Continues Retail Banking Push With Higher Savings Rate Offer
Goldman Sachs picked up the pace of its efforts to grab a larger share of the U.S. deposit market by increasing interest rates offered by its savings accounts from 1.05 % to 1.2 % .
While the investment bank 's push into retail banking services seems unusual , the move makes sense in the long run given the systematic decline in revenues across the securities trading industry since the economic downturn .
Additionally , Goldman 's retail deposit base also acts as a stable source of relatively low-cost funding for its business model -- and a larger deposit base can help the bank weather a sharp decline in short-term funding options during adverse economic conditions .
Goldman offers its online-only deposits through its GS Bank subsidiary , and reports these deposits as part of the liquidity products managed by its asset management arm .
As Goldman Sachs can leverage higher interest revenues from its Marcus online lending platform , and can also fall back on its investment research expertise to achieve higher returns on its assets under supervision compared to peers , the bank can afford to pass on more of these gains to small depositors in the form of higher savings rates .
Goldman 's move is in line with our expectation that the bank will continue to grow its offerings in the traditional loans-and-deposits banking space to complement its strength in investment banking .
We maintain our $ 225 price estimate for Goldman 's stock , which is slightly ahead of the current market price .
Over recent years , Goldman Sachs has taken a series of steps to grow its presence in the U.S. retail banking industry .
One of the factors behind this move was increasing pressure from the Federal Reserve for the bank and Morgan Stanley to rely more on deposits rather than volatile short-term funding options to fund their overall operations -- especially after these once-independent investment banks had to be converted to bank holding companies in the wake of the 2008 economic downturn .
At the same time , the foray into loans-and-deposits offerings should help these two banks lower the overall risk profile of their business model , given that their primary money minting units -- their securities trading desks -- have notoriously volatile revenues .
Goldman marked its entry into core retail banking operations in mid-2015 with its acquisition of GE Capital Bank .
The bank closed the deal last April , and soon began offering online-only savings accounts to anyone with a dollar to spare .
With the funding side of the loans-and-deposits model in place , Goldman then went on to launch its online-only loan platform , Marcus , last October .
Goldman also took another step towards diversifying its retail banking arm by acquiring online retirement savings platform Honest Dollar last May .
Notably , by offering personal loans to replace card debt through Marcus , Goldman ensured a higher interest yield on its loan portfolio .
This , in turn , could be used to offer higher interest rates on savings accounts .
And that is exactly what Goldman has done with its recent decision to hike savings rates from the existing 1.05 % to 1.2 % .
Data compiled by Bankrate.com shows that there are only three companies that offer FDIC-insured deposits at higher savings rates of 1.3 % -- BankPurely , BankPurely and ableBanking .
Among them , only ableBanking a division of Northeast Bank is directly offered by a bank .
By putting itself right at the top of the list of banks in terms of savings rates offered , Goldman has ensured visibility among rate-shoppers looking for the best place to park their free cash .
It should be noted here that the average rate for savings accounts in the U.S. is currently 0.06 % .
Goldman reported total deposits of just under $ 128 billion at the end of Q1 2017 , of which its relatively new online savings offerings accounted for $ 12 billion .
A bulk of Goldman 's deposit base ~ $ 54 billion comes from its private banking clients , while its institutional clients maintain deposits of almost $ 13 billion with the bank .
Goldman 's latest move should quicken the pace of growth in its online deposit base over subsequent periods .
The bank includes these deposits as a part of its total assets under supervision .
You can see how changes to the total AUS impacts our price estimate for Goldman by modifying the chart below .