Johnson & Johnson 's Type 2 Diabetes Drug Is Stellar in Cardiovascular Trials , but Comes With a Catch
Healthcare conglomerate Johnson & Johnson 's long-awaited data from Invokana , its type 2 diabetes blockbuster drug , has arrived !
Invokana is a next-generation SGLT-2 inhibitor that has the opportunity to slowly push traditional DPP-4 inhibitors like Merck 's Januvia to the wayside .
SGLT-2 inhibitors do n't work in the pancreas and liver as traditional type 2 diabetes medications do .
Instead , SGLT-2 inhibitors like Invokana block the absorption of glucose in the kidneys and promote glycemic balance by allowing the body to rid excess glucose through the urine .
Additionally , SGLT-2 inhibitors across the board demonstrated positive side effects of weight loss and lowered systolic blood pressure .
A majority of type 2 diabetics run into weight and hypertension issues , meaning SGLT-2 inhibitors could deliver improvements for these patients , even if SGLT-2 inhibitors are n't indicated for weight loss and lowering blood pressure .
However , the big news that all investors , physicians , and patients had been waiting for is whether or not J&J 's CANVAS and CANVAS-R long-term cardiovascular CV studies demonstrated a significant CV advantage over the placebo .
A significant improvement , defined as a reduction in CV death , myocardial infarction heart attack , and nonfatal stroke , could give Invokana an edge over DPP-4 inhibitors and potentially even its peers .
For those who may not recall , J&J 's Invokana was actually chasing Eli Lilly and Boehringer Ingelheim 's Jardiance which , in the EMPA-REG OUTCOME long-term CV study , demonstrated a 14 % reduction in major CV events .
Interestingly enough , though , sales of Jardiance really have n't taken off .
Sales totaled just $ 74 million for Eli Lilly in the first quarter , and while that was up 94 % year-over-year , it 's well below the $ 284 million that Invokana sold worldwide in Q1 2017 .
It 's possible that everyone has simply been waiting for Invokana , the first-in-class SGLT-2 inhibitor , to deliver its long-term CV results before a doctors and patients decide which drug offers the best outlook for type 2 diabetics .
On Monday , June 12 , Johnson & Johnson announced an aggregate reduction in the CV risks of 14 % , which matched that of Jardiance .
However , Invokana also reduced the risk of nonfatal myocardial infarction and nonfatal stroke by a respective 15 % and 10 % , which is notable because Eli Lilly 's and Boehringer Ingelheim 's Jardiance had no significant impact on either of these risks .
What 's more , it lowered the risk of hospitalization associated with heart failure by 33 % , demonstrated positive effects on glycemic balance and blood pressure , and helped patients lose weight .
Said Bruce Neal , principal investigator of the CANVAS and CANVAS-R studies , Sounds great , right ?
Not so fast .
One minor snafu is that Invokana took a pretty sizable backseat to Jardiance in terms of cardiovascular death risk .
Invokana reduced the risk of CV death by 13 % compared to Jardiance , which reduced the risk of CV death by 38 % .
The bigger issue , though , is a serious side-effect observed from taking Invokana .
According to data from two studies released in May , Invokana was found to have led to a higher risk of foot and leg amputations compared to the placebo .
Invokana patients demonstrated foot and leg amputations to the equivalent of 5.9 out of every 1,000 patients and 7.5 out of every 1,000 patients in the two studies compared to a respective 2.8 out of every 1,000 patients and 4.2 out of every 1,000 patients for the placebo .
Though J&J states in its Monday press release that the highest risk of amputation `` occurred in patients with a prior history of amputation or peripheral vascular disease , '' it does n't change the fact that Invokana will now carry a boxed warning for amputation risk and Jardiance does not .
So what does this data release mean for Invokana , Jardiance , type 2 diabetics , and investors ?
To begin with , it 's looking more and more likely that SGLT-2 inhibitors provide class-wide improvements in systolic blood pressure , weight-loss , and probably some degree of CV improvement .
We have two studies under our belt that have demonstrated some degree of significant CV risk reduction , which is potentially bad news for Merck 's Januvia , which is a weight-neutral drug that provided no significant reduction in the aforementioned CV risks in its long-term study .
Merck has already been increasing its list price on Januvia to make up for a modest decline in demand for its lead drug , but it could soon become hard to mask strength in SGLT-2 inhibitors .
As for the battle between Invokana and Jardiance , it remains to be seen if Lilly 's and Boehringer Ingelheim 's SGLT-2 inhibitor can gain any ground .
Invokana 's advantages in being first-to-market , and in providing a significant improvement in nonfatal heart attack and stroke should continue to allow it to lead all of its peers .
But , the addition of a boxed warning ca n't be overlooked .
While I do n't believe Invokana will lose its superior market share in the SGLT-2 space , it 's not out of the question that its market share begins to slowly get chipped away by its peers .
It 's also possible that J&J may need to get more cost-competitive with Invokana to overcome its boxed warning .
Overall , though , these results suggest Invokana is a positive for a vast majority of type 2 diabetics , which is a good thing .
It also suggests that Invokana will remain a blockbuster drug for the foreseeable future , which is good news for investors .