Where 's The Tylenol ?
J&J Disappoints And Frustrates
At first glance , Johnson & Johnson seemed to deliver the goods .
The health-care conglomerate unveiled fourth quarter financial results and full-year 2018 guidance early Tuesday that beat expectations .
During today 's conference call , it also announced plans to immediately bring back $ 12 billion in overseas cash , taking advantage of the lower tax rate on repatriated earnings and cash under the new tax law .
But as the day progressed and analysts dug below the headline numbers , those results lost their shine , and investors headed for the exit .
Down 4.2 percent to end the day at $ 141.86 a share , J&J 's stock was one of the Dow Jones Industrial Average 's biggest laggards .
It 's a reminder that in this market , if a stock is bouncing off an all-time high , having climbed 30 percent over the previous 12 months , it ca n't afford to miss the mark .
Strong quarterly results and guidance spurred by a positive currency impact and tax reform do n't cut it .
At $ 1.74 , per-share , fourth quarter operating profit beat the $ 1.72 expected by analysts .
Sales jumped 11.5 percent , spurred by pharmaceutical sales and last year 's $ 30 billion acquisition of Swiss biotech giant Actelion .
But profit margins came in lighter than expected .
Without the impact of a weaker U.S. dollar , global sales grew at a 9.4 percent clip .
Remove acquisitions and divestitures from the mix , and organic sales rose 4.2 percent .
`` ... the story in 4Q is the surprisingly weak gross margin missed by -300 bps with op ex management and a materially lower tax rate -1,000 bps vs. consensus helping to drive the modest EPS beat , '' wrote Barclays analyst Geoffrey Meacham in a note published today .
`` ... We think that JNJ is poised to deliver a good 2018 , but we await a better entry point given the punchy valuation . ''
Headwinds continued to batter J&J 's biggest-selling drug in the quarter .
Sales of the blockbuster inflammation therapy Remicade sagged 10.5 percent in the face of rising competition .
Sales of Stelara , Invokana and other prominent drugs fell short of analyst expectations .
Adding to worries : the threat of generic competition facing J&J 's blockbuster cancer therapy Zytiga after a court ruling last week invalidated its patent .
As for J&J 's full-year outlook , the company expects to earn between $ 8 a share and $ 8.20 a share this year , as sales climb 3.5 percent to 4.5 percent .
But organic sales growth comes in at 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent for the current year .
J&J expects operating margins to expand this year .
It has also promised to spend more on research and development .