Johnson & Johnson Earnings : When Strong Is n't Strong Enough
When a stock is at all-time highs and sitting on major gains over the past year , it has to be perfect , not just on the surface but underneath as well .
Though Johnson & Johnson ( JNJ ) reported better-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings Tuesday morning and a strong 2018 outlook , there was enough for the market to nitpick .
Investors sent the stock down 3.1 % , to $ 143.56 , marking its largest decline since last April and making it the second-worst performer in the Dow Jones Industrial Average .
Not much has changed for the health-care conglomerate , analysts said , but there was enough for investors to take some profits .
`` In this market , a company -- not just J&J -- needs to deliver clean , perfect quarterly results and guides , not just on the headline number but everything that goes into it , '' Glenn Novarro , an analyst at RBC Capital Markets , tells Barron 's .
He still has an outperform rating on the stock .
Here are some of the issues : Operating margins for the quarter came in lighter than some expected , in part because of higher research-and-development spending that was offset by a lower tax rate .
For 2018 , the company said it expected about one percentage point of improvement in operating margins -- lighter than some investors were expecting , Novarro says .
Currency and tax reforms were a major driver for the strong results and full-year outlook .
But Leerink Partners analyst Danielle Antalffy says the company is not going to get credit for `` nonoperational '' guidance .
Plus , organic sales growth projections for this year , based on management 's comments , suggested the momentum seen in the fourth quarter would n't continue at the same pace , even though J&J sees growth accelerating for the full-year , Antalffy says .
Sales of the company 's cancer drug Imbruvica were also lighter than expected ( $ 522 million instead of consensus expectations of $ 537 million ) .
Darzalex , another J&J cancer drug , had strong global sales , but that number masked a lighter showing in the U.S. that was offset by strength abroad .
Both are drugs that analysts think represent the company 's future growth prospects .
Potential note for AbbVie ( ABBV ) : J&J cited increased uptake globally and higher market share , wrote Credit Suisse analyst Vamil Divan .
Tony Butler , an analyst at Guggenheim Partners , also noticed several questions from analysts about potential generic competition for the company 's blockbuster prostate-cancer drug Zytiga after a court invalidated its patent last week .
`` It could be a banana peel we slip on , but in the big scope of things , you have to shrug your shoulders , '' says Butler , who characterized the results as strong overall .
Lesson to companies : Strong outlooks built on lower taxes and favorable currency exchange rates may not be enough to cut it in this market .