J&J Drug Prevents Heart Attacks At Cost Of Amputated Toes
Invokana , a diabetes drug made by Johnson & Johnson , decreases the risk of heart attacks and strokes , but also increases the risk of amputation , particularly of toes .
The result is a blow to J&J , and a boost to rivals Eli Lilly and Boehringer Ingelheim , who make a similar drug called Jardiance , which has been shown to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death but does not appear to carry the amputation risk .
The study also deepens the mystery about such drugs , known as sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 SGLT2 inhibitors , which prevent the kidney from absorbing sugar from the blood .
This lowers blood sugar , is good for the kidney , but leads to more urinary tract infections and weakened bones .
But scientists are not sure why the drugs would prevent cardiovascular disease , and it 's entirely unclear why one of them would lead to amputations .
`` It justifies the need to test each medicine , '' says Harlan Krumholz , of Yale University .
For every three heart attacks , strokes , or cardiovascular deaths prevented by Invokana , there were two amputations , 71 % of them of toes or the lower foot , according to the results of the 10,142-patient study , which was funded by Johnson & Johnson .
It is being presented at the annual meeting of the American Diabetes Association tonight , and published by the New England Journal of Medicine .
Heart attacks were far more common than amputations .
For every year patients took the drug , there were 31.5 heart attacks , strokes , or cardiovascular deaths per 1,000 patients in the placebo group and 26.9 in the group that took Invokana , a 14 % decrease .
But , there would be 3.4 amputations per 1,000 patients in the placebo group and 6.3 amputations per 1,000 patients among those who received Invokana -- a doubling of risk that held true for both minor amputations ( think toes ) and major ones ( think legs ) .
Bruce Neal , the senior director of the George Institute for Global Health in Sydney , Australia , and the lead investigator of the study , argued that the results were positive , saying in a press release they showed a `` clear benefit '' over current diabetes treatments .
But other researchers struggled with the data .
`` Personally , I would much rather have a small heart attack than lose a toe , '' says John Buse , the chief of endocrinology at UNC-Chapel Hill .
`` And I think I would much rather have a big heart attack than lose a leg . ''
The Food and Drug Administration has already added a warning -- a ` black box , ' the strongest kind -- to the product labeling for Invokana .
But the study shows the magnitude of the tradeoff physicians and patients will be making with the drug , essentially exchanging heart attacks and strokes for amputations .