J&J 's Zytiga Boosts Survival in New , Severe Prostate Cancers
- Findings may change initial treatment for advanced disease
- Two studies published in the New England Journal of Medicine
Johnson & Johnson 's Zytiga helps men newly diagnosed with advanced prostate cancer live longer , according to new findings that could expand use of the medication .
Men who received hormone therapy , the recommended first-time treatment , plus Zytiga were about one-third less likely to die during two studies than those who got standard treatment alone , according to research presented Saturday at the American Society of Clinical Oncology meeting in Chicago .
The findings suggest that the drug , currently used to treat men who worsen after getting standard hormone therapy , should n't be withheld until the cancer starts to spread .
`` Based on the magnitude of clinical benefit , we believe that the upfront care for patients newly diagnosed with advanced prostate cancer should change , '' said Nicholas James , lead author of one of the two studies and professor of clinical oncology at Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Birmingham , U.K.
Zytiga `` not only prolonged life , but also lowered the chance of relapse by 70 percent and reduced the chance of serious bone complications by 50 percent . ''
Prostate cancer is the most common tumor in men , diagnosed in more than 161,000 Americans this year alone , according to the American Cancer Society .
It is the third most common cause of death from cancer , killing nearly 27,000 Americans annually .
Unmet Need
The studies , published in the New England Journal of Medicine , were funded by J&J .
Zytiga generated $ 2.26 billion for the New Brunswick , New Jersey-based company in 2016 .
`` There is a large unmet need to improve treatment for men with newly diagnosed metastatic cancer , who die of the disease within less than five years on average , '' said Karim Fizazi , head of cancer medicine at Gustave Roussy , University Paris-Sud , in Villejuif , France , who led the other study .
Generic hormone therapy prevents the testicles from producing testosterone that spurs cell growth .
The market for treating those who progress after getting the standard treatment has gotten heated , with Zytiga competing against Pfizer Inc. 's Xtandi .
The two drugs use different mechanisms to hinder testosterone 's impact .
In a study of about 1,200 patients , known as Latitude , prostate cancer worsened after 33 months in men given Zytiga plus hormone therapy , compared with 14.8 months for those who did n't get Zytiga .
Those who got the combination were 38 percent less likely to die during the trial follow-up than patients who received standard therapy , and had less pain and went for longer until they needed chemotherapy .
They also experienced more side effects , including high blood pressure and signs of liver problems .
The second study , called Stampede , included nearly 2,000 men in the U.K. and Switzerland .
The three-year survival rate was 83 percent for those given the combination , compared with 76 percent for those getting only standard care .