KMI Launches Canada IPO Amid Political Uncertainty in BC
What Kinder Morgan 's New IPO Could Mean for the Stock 
KMI 's Trans Mountain expansion project
On May 25 , 2017 , Kinder Morgan KMI , through its subsidiary Kinder Morgan Canada Limited , launched a planned IPO initial public offering of 102.9 million restricted voting shares at $ 17 Canadian dollars per share .
The company intends to raise $ 1.75 billion Canadian dollars through the offering to partially fund its Trans Mountain expansion project .
Kinder Morgan Canada Limited will own nearly 30 % interest in Kinder Morgan 's Canadian business , including the Trans Mountain project , with the remaining 70 % owned by Kinder Morgan .
Kinder Morgan announced that it will make the final investment decision on the Trans Mountain expansion project `` conditioned on the successful completion of the IPO . ''
The company expects the IPO to complete by May 31 , 2017 .
Political uncertainty in British Columbia
The ruling Liberal Party in British Columbia , which supports the Trans Mountain expansion project , did not win a majority in recent elections .
This means the party have to get support from the Green Party , which is not in favor of the KMI project , to form a government .
In the second likely scenario , the other major party -- the New Democrats -- will form a government with the support of the Green Party .
This could be the worst case scenario for KMI as the New Democrats , similar to the Green Party , are not in favor of the Trans Mountain expansion project .
The Green Party 's support could thus ultimately decide the government 's direction .
A Green Party spokesperson said the party will announce its decision in one week .
In announcing the final investment decision on the Trans Mountain project , Kinder Morgan said that while the `` political climate was not ideal , '' it will be moving ahead as the `` Trans Mountain Expansion Project financing contingency period , as specified in shipper agreements , concludes at the end of May . ''