Why Long-Term Investors Should Prefer Kinder Morgan Inc Over Energy Transfer Partners LP
Kinder Morgan currently has a huge competitive advantage over its midstream rival .
On the surface , it would seem like Energy Transfer Partners is a no brainer for income investors .
The company currently yields a gaudy 9.3 % and plans to increase the payout by a low-double-digit rate over the near term while maintaining at least 1.0 times distribution coverage .
Moreover , it intends to achieve that growth while progressively improving its leverage ratio from the current 5.0 times debt-to-EBITDA to below 4.0 times over the next 12 to 18 months .
Those things certainly seem to put it ahead of Kinder Morgan .
Not only is its current yield just 2.6 % but its leverage ratio is 5.4 times at the moment .
That said , the company plans to get that number below 5.0 times in the future , which would enable it to finally start growing the dividend again , though the company has yet to release its growth forecast .
However , while Energy Transfer Partners has the appearances of being a better investment , especially for income seekers , there is one crucial difference between the two that makes Kinder Morgan the better option for long-term investors .
A big cut off the top
That difference is the fact that Energy Transfer Partners pays a significant portion of its cash flow to its parent Energy Transfer Equity each quarter via incentive distribution rights IDRs .
This fee really adds up .
Just take a look at last quarter : Chart by author .
Overall , Energy Transfer Partners generated $ 859 million in distributable cash flow and distributed $ 806 million of it to partners .
However , as that chart shows , Energy Transfer Equity got a significant portion of the money .
While those IDRs entitled it to receive nearly $ 400 million in cash last quarter , it 's currently providing some financial support to Energy Transfer Partners by relinquishing a portion of those rights , so it only received a net $ 220 million from the IDRs last quarter .
That still amounted to about a quarter of the total distributions paid to partners even though it just owns 2.5 % of the common units .
There are two other things worth pointing out about that relinquishment agreement .
First , without it Energy Transfer Partners would have paid out $ 100 million more in distributions last quarter than cash collected , resulting in less than 1.0 times distribution coverage , implying it ca n't afford its current payout rate without the support .
Further , this support agreement will start winding down next year , resulting in a much smaller relinquishment that will cease by 2020 .
Because of that , an even larger portion of Energy Transfer Partners ' cash flow will get paid to its parent company in the coming years .
These rights really add up
Long-term investors ca n't overlook the impact of these IDRs .
Using the first-quarter run-rate , Energy Transfer Partners is on pace to pay $ 810 million in cash to its parent this year in IDRs alone and would have handed over $ 1.5 billion if we factor out the relinquishments .
In ten years ' time , and assuming no growth , that 's $ 15 billion in cash that could flow up to Energy Transfer Equity instead of being allocated to benefit unitholders in Energy Transfer Partners .
The company could use that money to pay an even higher distribution , internally finance additional growth projects , or repay debt .
Any one of those options would create more value for investors than the transfer of wealth those IDRs represent .
Now , let 's contrast this with Kinder Morgan , which gets to allocate 100 % of its cash flow toward creating value for investors because it does n't pay any IDRs .
In 2017 , it plans to do that in several ways .
Of the $ 4.46 billion in distributable cash flow it expects to generate this year , about a quarter will head back to investors via dividends .
It then plans to invest $ 3.2 billion in growth projects , leaving it with about $ 150 million in excess that it will use to reduce debt .
By allocating its cash flow this way , the Kinder Morgan does n't need to tap the debt or equity market this year to finance growth , though it did just announce plans to launch an IPO of its Canadian business so it can pre-fund a significant portion of an upcoming expansion project in that country .
Meanwhile , in future years the company could allocate as much as 100 % of its cash flow to paying dividends or some other value enhancing initiatives such as buying back stock if either option would create more value for investors .
That 's flexibility Energy Transfer Partners simply does not have because 25 % to 50 % of its cash flow will head to its a parent company each year via the IDRs .
Investor takeaway Kinder Morgan has a huge competitive advantage over Energy Transfer Partners because it 's not sending a big chunk of cash up to a parent company on a recurring basis .
Those fees are already eating a significant portion of Energy Transfer 's current cash flow and will only grow over time once its parent starts reducing its support .
Without that drag on its ability to create value for investors , Kinder Morgan should deliver higher returns than Energy Transfer Partners over the long-term .