Microsoft Ventures : A look at Redmond 's latest 13 investments
Since the start of 2017 , Microsoft Ventures , the company 's venture-funding arm , has made investments in 13 companies .
The latest addition , made public this week , is Trusona , an identity-authentication company .
Trusona offers a password-free login , along with `` the only insured authentication solution '' for enterprises , according to a blurb on the Microsoft Ventures portfolio page .
In May 2016 , Microsoft announced plans to create Microsoft Ventures , a small early-stage investment group targeting startups in the cloud , security and machine-learning markets .
Late last year , Microsoft Ventures established an artificial intelligence AI specific fund .
Microsoft also occasionally invests in other companies outside of its Ventures group .
By the end of last year , there were 19 investments listed on the Microsoft Ventures portfolio page .
I had counted 18 , but that 's before Microsoft at some point later added CloudLanes , a cloud data-management company , to its roster .
Since the start of this year , Microsoft has added another 13 companies to its Ventures investment list .
In addition to Trusona , here are the others :
PandaDoc , a company that `` helps accelerate the way organizations transact ''
Frame , which is designed to help users move Windows desktop applications to the cloud and access them from any device
Agolo , a company that has `` advanced summarization software '' for news , chat , voice , and video
Bonsai , a company focused on automating the management of complex machine-learning algorithms
Synack , a security-testing-focused company that uses `` highly vetted ethical hackers '' to crowd source solutions
Livongo , a consumer-targeted digital health company that works with people with chronic conditions
CNEX Labs , a semiconductor company working on solid-state storage controllers and software for datacenters Prevedere , which provides predictive models of future sales , revenue , and costs using AI
Pickit , a company providing `` professionally curated images sourced from the world 's leading providers '' that can be used inside PowerPoint , Word , Sway , and Windows 10
SnapRoute , creators of open-source software for networking hardware used in datacenters
As Microsoft execs originally indicated , cloud , security and machine-learning continue to be key focus points for its Ventures investments .