Microsoft launches a new AI startup program at Station F in Paris
Microsoft is rethinking its strategy when it comes to startup acceleration in Paris .
The company is going to focus on artificial intelligence .
This will lead to a new program for AI startups at Station F .
Microsoft has had a startup accelerator in the Sentier neighborhood for a few years now .
When Station F opens at the end of June , the company is going to focus exclusively on artificial intelligence with a partnership with INRIA and move everything to the startup campus .
`` We think that we 're first going to select 5 or 6 startups that can foster an ecosystem around INRIA and themselves , '' Microsoft France Developer Experience leader Christophe Shaw told me .
`` The idea is that we 're eventually going to have a hundred startups in this club . ''
And the first startup joining this program is Recast.ai .
This French startup has been building a service that helps you build , launch and manage chatbots .
The company also takes care of hosting those bots .
A few big French companies have been relying on Recast.ai for their bots .
`` We 've been lucky that Microsoft spotted us from the very beginning of Recast , '' co-founder and CEO Patrick Joubert told me .
`` We 've been using Microsoft Azure to host our service . ''
The Recast.ai team is looking forward to working next to other AI people so that they can learn from each other .
As part of the program , they 'll also be able to talk with Microsoft experts and INRIA researchers .
And the startup hopes that they 'll be able to find new clients by being surrounded with hundreds of companies at Station F. `` We do n't plan to invest or acquire startups through this program , '' Shaw said .
Microsoft also plans to help all the other companies at Station F with some developer perks .
If you 're working from Station F , you 'll automatically get free credit on Microsoft Azure as part of their plan to help startups .
`` Eventually , we want to host one event per day at Station F , from technical presentations to business workshops , '' Shaw said .
The company is going to have a tiny space to host those events inside Station F. Everyone at Station F will be able to attend those events .