Microsoft Regains Its $ 600B Dot-Com-Era Valuation
Shares of legacy tech titan Microsoft Corp. ( MSFT ) continue to gain on Friday afternoon after a rally this week that brought the tech giant 's market capitalization up to $ 600 billion for the first time since January 2000 .
Trading up 1.3 % at 78.92 , MSFT reflects an approximate 27 % gain year-to-date YTD versus the S&P 500 's 15 % rally over the same period .
Microsoft bulls foresee shares jumping higher next week on fiscal-year 2018 first-quarter earnings slated for Oct. 26 .
As Microsoft increases its reach in high-growth markets such as cloud computing and artificial intelligence , revenue is now evenly split between old growth and new businesses .
Five Tech Giants Approach $ 1B Mark
With a market cap of $ 608 billion , Microsoft is the third-largest S&P 500 company behind Apple Inc. ( AAPL ) at $ 813 billion and Google parent Alphabet Inc. ( GOOG ) at $ 690 billion .
Earlier this year , U.S. tech behemoths Facebook Inc. ( FB ) and Amazon.com Inc. ( AMZN ) joined the three as the only publicly listed U.S. companies valued above $ 500 billion .
Rising shares of America 's largest tech companies reflect a larger trend in the market wherein investors are looking at the sector as offering a sense of security to portfolios , given the companies tend to increase their earnings even amid slow economic growth .
While skeptics are concerned with inflated valuations , the Street remains confident that the rally is far from the frenzy of the dot-com bubble .
Instead , bulls see the tech rally as a reflection of the market pricing in significant earnings and growth potential for these companies as they double down on new technology and reach into global markets .
As for Microsoft this time around , the run to $ 600 billion has taken a much longer time than it did in 2000 .
The firm has grown from $ 150 billion to $ 600 billion in eight years , while in the '90s , MSFT skyrocketed sixfold in just 800 trading days to reach the same milestone .