Microsoft starts shipping its own keyboard with built-in Windows Hello sign-in
Microsoft is rolling out its own Windows Hello-compatible keyboard for Windows 10 devices .
And it 's unsurprisingly consolidating its mobile-keyboard strategy around SwiftKey .
Microsoft has begun shipping its previously announced new keyboard with built-in Windows Hello fingerprint sign-in .
The Microsoft Modern Keyboard with Fingerprint ID enables Windows 10 users to sign into Windows devices and compatible apps .
( The 12 existing Windows Hello compatible apps , which include Dropbox , OneDrive , and ShareFile are listed here . )
Windows Hello is Microsoft 's technology for signing into Windows 10 PCs , tablets , and phones using facial recognition , fingerprint sensing , and selected companion devices .
Microsoft officials told OEMs late last year that making Windows Hello-compatible PCs and devices should be a top priority , as they would distinguish `` hero devices '' from non-hero devices .
Microsoft is selling the Bluetooth 4.0 ( and higher ) keyboard -- which can be used wirelessly or wired -- for $ 129.99 .
It 's also now selling a new Microsoft Modern Mouse ( not a Hello-compatible peripheral ) for $ 49.99 .
The two peripherals are available currently in the US , Canada , and China from the Microsoft Store .
In other keyboard-related news , Microsoft is dropping support for one of its Garage projects , the Word Flow keyboard that it made available for the iPhone .
The company is now putting its mobile-keyboard focus on SwiftKey , which it acquired last year .
The move makes sense , given Microsoft is requiring SwiftKey support in order to use the coming Windows 10 cloud Clipboard feature .
The Clipboard feature -- which originally was slated to be part of the Windows 10 Fall Creators Update , but has now slipped to some future Windows 10 release -- will allow users to copy and paste text , photos , maps , GIFs , and more between their Windows PCs and iOS/Android devices as long as they have SwiftKey installed .