Early Sales Indicate Xbox One X Is Blowing Away Everyone 's Expectations
Who on earth wants a `` premium '' $ 500 Xbox One X console when every other system on the market is selling for $ 100 - $ 300 cheaper than that ?
A lot of people , it turns out .
It 's starting to seem like the fanboys were right .
Early sales numbers for the Xbox One X are trickling in , and the console is surprising everyone with rock solid debut numbers .
Many in the press were skeptical of its chances at that price ( myself included ) and even Microsoft seemed to be downplaying how it expected the Xbox One X to perform compared to other consoles and its own Xbox One S , always pushing the idea that being a `` premium '' product and price was obviously going to suppress sales to some degree .
But these early numbers are encouraging .
The Xbox One X has sold 80,000 units in the UK in its first week of release , according to GamesIndustry.biz .
That is not only pretty high for the region , given the PS4 's popularity in Europe , but it 's also a figure that took the PS4 Pro four weeks to hit last year .
That report was retweeted by Microsoft 's head of Xbox Games Marketing , Aaron Greenburg , who also added the following : 
`` Huge thanks to everyone for their support of @Xbox One X. Great initial results not just in UK , but seeing similar results across Europe .
NA # s much bigger , amazing first week ! ''
It 's almost worded like a Trump tweet , but the message seems pretty clear , the Xbox One X is performing not just well in the UK , but in the rest of Europe and in its home base of North America as well .
We do n't have the figures from other regions yet , but I would expect them to be similarly high , and surpassing metrics set by the PS4 Pro .
So how did Microsoft pull this off ?
A few thoughts :
- Analysts have been underestimating this console generation from the start .
There was a fear that the Xbox One and PS4 would fail to reach the heights set by their predecessors , but they 're on course to surpass them .
There was a fear that Nintendo 's Switch would fail like the Wii U , yet it 's poised to be one of the company 's biggest hits ever .
In short , whatever you 've been predicting about video game hardware in the last generation has generally been wrong , and it seems that may be true about the Xbox One X as well .
- The Xbox One X may be outperforming the PS4 Pro by this severe of a margin because it 's ... a better console ?
I mean , it just is .
Leaving aside PS4 's exclusive games roster , the Xbox One X is flat-out 40 % more powerful than anything else on the market .
A clear leap above Xbox One and PS4 , and also more than the Pro itself .
That kind of skip forward makes it more coveted by fans who desire power above all else .
A slight power edge was in part why PS4 dominated Xbox One at launch , and now the tables might be turning ( though it 's unlikely MS can catch Sony at this point in terms of total sales ) .
- I 'm also willing to bet that in 2017 , we 're seeing more and more people finally pick up 4K TVs , as it 's really the only way to go if you 're in the market for a new set .
4K is such a huge part of the Xbox One X experience , and the difference is noticeable .
PS4 Pro may even have helped push that along because if people were saying how great games looked on the Pro in 4K , now we 've arrived at an even more powerful system that can use your TV to an even greater extent , and so the choice to pick up an Xbox One X was easy if you owned a set .
I do n't know , those are probably not all the reasons , but they 're the ones I can think of that make the most sense .
It 's frankly miraculous that Microsoft has done all this without any big exclusive titles this year ( Forza aside ) , simply acting as the best place to play third party games , and wowing people with great-looking , Xbox One X-patched titles like Wolfenstein , Assassin 's Creed and Battlefront .
I am very curious to see Microsoft release more Xbox One X sales numbers , which I am sure they will be bragging about soon enough .
It 's been a long time since Xbox sales were anything to celebrate , but it seems the Xbox One X has defied expectations and the odds .
People want power , plain and simple .