Microsoft : Nadella 's Cloud Transformation Can Rack up Gains , Says Argus
SIGN IN VIEW ALL SEARCH RESULTS This copy is for your personal , non-commercial use only .
To order presentation-ready copies for distribution to your colleagues , clients or customers visit http://www.djreprints.com .
http://www.barrons.com/articles/microsoft-nadellas-cloud-transformation-can-rack-up-gains-says-argus-1509456561 Microsoft : Nadella 's Cloud Transformation Can Rack up Gains , Says Argus By Oct. 31 , 2017 9:29 a.m. ET Text Size Medium Large Shares of Microsoft MSFT are up 23 cents at $ 84.10 , after Joseph Bonner with Argus Research raised his rating on the shares to Buy from Hold , with a price target of $ 95 , after concluding the company 's corporate revenue can rise on the strength of its Azure cloud computing and other cloud services .
Microsoft trails Amazon AMZN in cloud , but it can still profit from `` digital transformation , '' he believes : CEO Satya Nadella has pivoted Microsoft toward high-value commercial and cloud applications as the company has shaken off past missteps in the wireless phone handset market .
According to industry tracker Gartner , Microsoft has about 7 % market share in the public cloud , a distant second to Amazon but still much greater than that of other competitors .
Given Microsoft 's massive commercial user base and long-term relationships , we believe that the company is well positioned to grow commercial revenue as the process of digital transformation continues both in the U.S. and internationally .
The company 's consumer business is more steady , though it should show better profitability as it laps the disposal of the feature-phone business in November .
Bonner , reflecting on last Thursday 's fiscal Q1 report from the software giant , notes the jump in revenue in various areas of businesses software pertaining to `` business processes , '' including the 28 % jump in Microsoft 's `` productivity '' division .
This is how CEO Satya Nadella has shifted Microsoft 's business : Mr. Nadella has outlined some first principles based on his vision for Microsoft as a productivity and platform company for the ` mobile-first , cloud-first world . '
His ambition is for Microsoft to ` change the nature of work through digital technology . '
This means putting Microsoft at the center of business process transformation through Microsoft products that improve productivity and security while also providing hybrid cloud and AI platforms .
He has refocused the company on investments in core productivity experiences and platform development .
We think that this means Windows , Office , and business systems like SQL Server and Azure .
He also plans to eliminate duplicative products .
Other than the Surface tablet/laptop , we think that Microsoft has given up on its mobile strategy .
All of this prompts Bonner to raise his EPS estimates for this fiscal year to $ 3.39 per share from a prior $ 3.24 per share estimate , and to raise his fiscal 2019 estimate to $ 3.62 from $ 3.54 per share .