Microsoft to lay off ` several thousand ' employees
Microsoft to lay off ` several thousand ' employees Microsoft is cutting ` several thousand ' employees , mostly in its sales organization , following a reorganization earlier this week .
Three days after announcing internally its latest reorg , Microsoft has announced the resulting layoffs that have been rumored for the past week .
On July 6 , Microsoft officials said they were notifying employees whose jobs were being cut .
One source close to the company said Microsoft would be cutting `` several thousands '' of employees .
CNBC said Microsoft would be shedding up to 3,000 employees , but did n't cite the source of that number .
Some of those whose jobs are cut may be reassigned to other posts in the company , I 'm hearing .
Microsoft officials declined to specify which groups will take the brunt , but given the July 3 reorg was all about Microsoft 's sales organization , it 's a safe bet most are coming from field sales , marketing , and other related teams .
I 'm hearing these cuts are not meant primarily to be a cost-cutting measure ; instead , Microsoft is redefining some of its sales roles in a more technical way , given the company 's focus on pushing the digital transformation concept .
At the end of March 2017 , Microsoft employed 121,567 worldwide .
A year ago , approximately 50,000 of Microsoft 's employees were engaged in sales , marketing , and services jobs .
Today 's announcement is not the biggest layoff Microsoft has had .
In 2014 , company officials announced the company would be eliminating 18,000 jobs over the course of a year , with 12,500 of those associated with the Nokia Devices and Services acquisition .
Those cuts began with a first wave of 13,000 , the majority of whom Microsoft notified over a six-month period .
Last year , Microsoft announced additional job cuts of 2,850 , including at least 900 from its sales organization .
That was on top of other hefty headcount reductions from its smartphone business .
Microsoft often announces reorgs and layoffs around the start of the company 's new fiscal year , July 1 .
This year 's reorg was all about revamping the company 's commercial and consumer sales organizations in the name of digital transformation .
In January this year , Microsoft announced a number of organization changes that affected its sales and marketing organizations .
As part of those moves , a number of those sales and marketing teams were moved under Judson Althoff , a Microsoft executive vice president in charge of the company 's Worldwide Commercial Business Group .