Microsoft Azure Stack vs. VMware Cloud on AWS -- Customers , Start Your Pencil Sharpeners
Enterprise hybrid cloud adoption is rising .
It 's a trend that prompts vendors that serve enterprise IT to respond with hybrid cloud `` in a box '' solutions .
In a previous post , I squared-off two such offerings -- Microsoft 's Azure Stack vs. VMware 's Cloud on AWS ( VMC on AWS ) .
I made the comparison based on services and delivery model .
Much was yet to be disclosed at that time by either vendor on pricing .
Now that VMworld 2017 has come and gone , where VMware announced VMC on AWS availability and pricing , potential customers can begin to compare the two on a cost basis .
First , it is important to keep in mind that both are acquired by customers as an on-going service that is delivered , managed and supported by the relevant vendors .
With Azure Stack , a customer buys or leases the supporting hardware from one of four Azure Stack partners : currently Cisco , Dell EMC , HPE and Lenovo .
Azure Stack software licenses and services are layered on top .
With VMware Cloud on AWS , the entire hardware , software and services stack is delivered , operated and supported by VMware .
Second , because these are initial offerings , much will change as time goes on as the vendors adjust and adapt to use cases and customer preferences .
However , here 's how the pricing models `` stack-up '' today .
VMware Cloud on AWS
At VMworld 2017 , VMware announced the initial availability and pricing of VMware Cloud on AWS in the US West ( Oregon ) region with plans to expand to additional AWS regions worldwide throughout 2018 .
Upon initial availability , customers will acquire the service on an hourly basis and pay only for each hour that a host is active .
VMware will make one - and three-year reserved subscription options available in the future .
However , under these reserved commitment plans , customers are billed for every hour during the term , regardless whether the hosts are in use .
A Hybrid Loyalty Program will provide discounts to customers with on-premises VMware vSphere , NSX , and/or vSAN licenses up to a maximum or 25 % .
In conjunction with the announcement , VMware has posted a pricing comparison model of the hourly , 1-year and 3-year options .
Not surprisingly , the 3-year commitment would yield the greatest discount of 50 % over hourly pricing .
Additional discounts are available when the Hybrid Loyalty Program is factored-in .
Pricing is based on the number of hosts where each host has 2 CPUs , 36 cores , 512 GB RAM , 15 TB of local flash storage ( 3.6 TB cache , 10.7 TB raw storage capacity ) .
A minimum of 4 hosts is required per cluster .
Additional hosts can be added or subtracted in units of 1 .
Pricing includes hardware , VMware software and support plus AWS infrastructure , but does not include charges for data transfer , IP addresses and direct connections to AWS services .
Microsoft takes a different approach .
Azure Stack
First , even though Azure Stack is delivered as a hardware/software integrated system , customers are responsible for purchasing the hardware infrastructure .
Hardware support and maintenance are provided by the hardware vendor partner .
Second , the pricing model is pure pay-for-use services that are licensed by Microsoft via its Enterprise Agreement or Cloud Service Provider programs .
Azure Stack can be added to an existing Azure agreement so that subscriptions , monetary commitment and invoices are all included .
In addition , existing enterprise licenses for Windows Server , SQL Server , etc. can also be applied .
Metering for usage is `` similar '' Microsoft 's term to that used in Azure .
Customers pay separately metered and priced hourly rates for virtual machines , storage and application services .
Azure Stack services are billed along with other Azure services in use and on the same invoice .
Two support contracts will also be required -- one with Microsoft , the other with the Azure Stack hardware provider .
Bottom Line
I 've put the details in this post for a reason : Making total cost of ownership ( TCO ) projections will be complicated by the fact that as-a-service is still a relatively new purchasing model and one that will be complicated by lots of moving parts .
Market research indicates both hybrid cloud platforms are in demand .
And it will often be the case that large enterprise customers will sign-on to both platforms -- Azure Stack for Windows-centric application suites like Office 365 , and VMC on AWS for VMware environments .
Now that pricing metrics can be compared , potential customers will likely revisit their initial assumptions .
By VMware 's own calculations , the list price per host under a three-year commitment will be $ 109,366.00 per year or $ 3,038.00 per month .
A minimum configuration will multiply those costs four-times those amounts .
VMware executives stated that their aim was to price the service on a per VM basis lower than a traditional on-premises implementation and on-par with a native cloud instance .
However , these calculations presume an undisclosed degree of platform oversubscription when moving traditional vSphere instances to VMC on AWS .
Azure Stack is simpler but the pricing metrics are very granular .
A Base Virtual Machine costs $ 0.008 / vCPU/hour .
Azure Blob Storage costs $ 0.006 / GB/month .
And as with VMC on AWS , a least four servers are required at the customer 's data center site .
Actual TCO may not be fully understood until a customer is well into the program .
Assuming that customers use their existing software licenses for discounting leverage , Microsoft guides to Azure Stack fees being lower than Azure .
This is true they say because the customer takes on the hardware TCO burden , but they do n't offer an assumed comparison to a traditional model in the same way that VMware does .
In either case , enterprise customers will now be sharpening their pencils as they look for all means available to exact discounts from both vendors .