Microsoft Surprises Nobody With Xbox One X Price
For months , Microsoft touted what it was calling `` Project Scorpio '' as the most powerful console ever made .
All that talk of overpowered hardware , 4K gaming and the repetition of the word `` premium '' raised one question over and over again : how much will it cost ?
The most powerful console in the world wo n't make it if it costs too much , overall , and video game history is full of consoles that got burned by launching at the wrong price .
And today , we got our answer .
The Xbox One X will launch on November 7 , 2017 , at $ 499 .
This is what we 've expected for a long time .
There were moments in there when it seemed like Microsoft might do something unexpected , like announce the console at some sort of colossal $ 599 or way down at $ 399 , but it 's been the consensus for months that $ 499 is the upper limit on what it actually makes sense to charge for a premium console .
There 's a reason Microsoft saved the announcement for the end , without a big graphic up on screen .
It 's just not that much to write home about .
Microsoft is launching a reasonably expensive console at the price everyone seems to agree makes sense .
It 's a number with a bit of a sore history over at Microsoft , however .
The original Xbox One launched at $ 499 , and I 'm of the opinion that it 's that price more than anything else that led to the console 's early stumbles .
But Microsoft is once again facing off against a less-expensive PlayStation 4 variant , this time hoping that superior hardware can bring it home .
It means that the team needs to go overboard on messaging : without exclusive games to push either the console or really even the platform , Microsoft needs to spend a lot of time convincing gamers that this machine is worth the extra money to bring the sizzle to a 4K TV and that they should n't just go ahead and get a less powerful PlayStation 4 Pro with a broader library of better exclusives .
I 'm on the fence on this thing , at this point .
I 'll buy it , of course , but for me , the perfect two console setup remains some sort of PS4 with , now , the Nintendo Switch .
Then again , strong sales on the Xbox One Elite controller might indicate a certain desire for premium products from Microsoft .