Netflix Can Break Hearts , Too
`` Sense8 '' and `` The Get Down '' get canceled .
Fans are n't happy , but Netflix knows what it 's doing .
Netflix has emerged as a sanctuary for canceled cult favorites .
The leading streaming television service has breathed new life into Arrested Development , The Killing , and Longmire , long after their original networks cut them .
Gilmore Girls and Full House have received swan-song seasons on Netflix , too .
If there 's a show that was nixed before its time , there 's a fair chance there 's an online petition or wishful-thinking post on social media begging Netflix to throw out a lifeline .
However , we 're now learning that Netflix 's programming decisions can cut both ways .
It announced last week that it wo n't renew Sense8 .
A few days earlier , it revealed that it will cancel The Get Down after just its initial two-part first season .
Whatever comes up has to come down .
Show of force
There was plenty of hype for Sense8 when it arrived .
The sci-fi series was the handiwork of the Wachowskis of The Matrix trilogy fame , along with Babylon 5 creator and Thor director J. Michael Straczynski .
A neat twist to the show was that it featured an international cast as the eight strangers who realize that they 're connected , a big selling point for the show as Netflix was expanding into foreign markets .
The Get Down was a serialized musical drama about the rise of hip-hop and disco in South Bronx during the 1970s .
It also had its fair share of star power , but Netflix cut the cord after its first 11 episodes .
Fans of both shows are n't happy about the cancellations , and they 've turned to social media to drum up support for either the return of the shows or at least a finale or movie that ties up the loose ends .
-- Netflix Life @NetflixLifee June 5 , 2017 THE GET DOWN DESERVED ANOTHER SEASON . SENSE8 ALREADY HAD TWO . JUST GIVE US THIS ONE THING , YOU NEVER EVEN GAVE US A CHANCE . @netflix Netflix : we 're canceling Sense8 and the Get Down to take risks Also Netflix : HERES LIKE 90 NEW ADAM SANDLER MOVIES 
-- Casey Nugent @CaseyNuge June 2 , 2017 It is n't fun to see Netflix go from hero to killjoy , but it was inevitable .
The moment Netflix got into bankrolling original shows -- starting with Lilyhammer five years ago -- it was just a matter of time before titles that were n't cutting it would get nixed .
No one raised much of a stink when Lilyhammer and Hemlock Grove were axed , but back-to-back weeks of cancellations of shows with cult followings will raise some eyebrows .
Netflix knows what it 's doing , even if fans of Sense8 and The Get Down may not see it that way .
It has the viewership data that fans of the canceled shows do n't have .
Netflix recently expanded its movie deal with Adam Sander because it has the data .
It knows that its members have enjoyed more than 500 million hours of earlier Sandler movies on its platform over the past two years .
Netflix knows how many people are watching its shows and , perhaps more importantly , how far viewers got before moving on to something else .
Netflix is doing things right .
It recently topped 100 million subscribers worldwide , tacking on another 19 million net additions in 2016 alone .
It 's going to continue ramping up spending on new shows , but with a mandate to take chances , even its unparalleled access to viewing-habits data is n't going to save it from making bad calls .
Netflix is successful because it 's not afraid to fail , and failing is just a part of the programming process .