Netflix Waited 20 Years to Make This Move
In its 20-year history , Netflix has shown astounding growth by going it alone .
Unlike tech peers Facebook , Amazon , Google , and Apple , the company had yet to make an acquisition -- until now .
Netflix announced its first ever deal on Monday , and it 's not exactly a game-changer .
The company will acquire comic book publisher Millarworld for undisclosed terms .
Millarworld 's portfolio includes Kingsman , Kick-Ass , and Reborn , though the first two properties are n't included in the deal as they 've already been made into movies .
Netflix will also own future content developed by Millarworld .
In a blog post , Millarworld founder Mark Millar wrote : `` Warner Bros bought DC Comics in 1968 .
Disney bought Marvel in 2009 .
Today Netflix purchased Millarworld and I 'm still blinking .
This is only the third time in history a comic-book company purchase on this scale has ever happened . ''
The full scale is hard to know , since the company did n't disclose terms of the transaction .
Netflix 's long-time reluctance for deals is particularly noteworthy when you consider the histories of other big Internet companies .
Amazon.com , of course , is in the process of buying Whole Foods for $ 13.7 billion .
Facebook has bought Instagram and WhatsApp for a combined $ 20 billion .
Google 's deals have included YouTube and smart-home firm Nest Labs .
To be sure , the acquisition will open up many content possibilities for Netflix , with the management citing the potential for films , TV shows , and kids ' series .
Netflix 's comic-book-themed shows based on Marvel franchises , including Daredevil , have been popular with fans , suggesting that there 's interest in this kind of programming .
The deal is more interesting , though , for what it says about Netflix 's strategy , rather than for what Netflix is getting in this particular instance .
Disney -- part partner , part competition -- owns Marvel , and Netflix licenses the rights to its characters .
The Millarworld acquisition shows that Netflix is trying to own intellectual property outright .
Netflix has increasingly been following a DIY strategy , opting to produce more content in-house so that it will own the global rights to more of its popular shows .
Owning intellectual property takes that a step further .
Time will tell if this fixed-cost strategy pays off .
Big Picture : Netflix acquired a comic-book publisher , perhaps a sign that it 's interested in owning more intellectual property .