Netflix Headed to 90 Million Users
The streaming service will add millions of subscribers a year and the stock could reach $ 273 by 2020 .
We are raising our 12-month price target on Netflix to $ 195 from $ 175 .
We apply the same valuation methodology as previous , shortening our discount period by a half year to a mid-2018 price target of $ 195 for Netflix ticker : NFLX .
This is 22.5 times our 2021 earnings-per-share estimate , implying the same $ 273 stock price in 2020 .
Our 2021 scenario reflects 66 million U.S. subscribers and $ 115 million international .
We think that Netflix will continue to reinforce its broad market appeal and expand its content budget as it scales users and eventually achieves the high-end of its U.S. adoption target .
We think this mass appeal will also apply globally into hundreds of millions of homes .
In our scenario analysis , 90 million U.S. and 250 million international subscribers could support a $ 21 billion content budget , $ 5 billion in tech and network operations spending and produce $ 30 per share in earnings power .
The company 's long-held view of 60 million-90 million U.S. subscribers looked preposterous to most investors only a few years ago .
After exceeding 50 million last quarter , most investors now realize the range will more than likely be met .
We think the outer boundary , however , i.e. , 90 million is more plausible than most investors believe .
The pay-TV industry added 2.8 million new subscribers per year on average for 30 years before reaching full penetration 102 million subscribers , 87 % of homes .
The broadband industry is following a similar path , adding 3.0 million net new per year on average over the past eight years .
We also expect a lengthy period of two million to three million net new additions per year for Netflix at the top of its adoption curve .
It took 50 years for pay-TV to hit full penetration .
The broadband industry had a much faster ramp , quickly replacing dial-up Internet services .
For the last eight years , the U.S. broadband industry has been adding 3.0 million homes per year on average and is now about 100 million subscribers , 80 % penetration of homes .
Netflix has about 50 million U.S. subscribers , about 50 % penetration of broadband homes and 40 % penetration of total homes .
International is much larger opportunity .
Excluding China , there are about 5.5 times as many pay-TV subscribers outside the U.S. as the current U.S. subscriber base .
For several years , we have been reiterating our belief that Internet video subscriptions will one day exceed pay-TV subscriptions because it is drastically less expensive to deploy and operate .
This drives a completely different and favorable elasticity curve .
The U.S. ramp is important to investor views on the international opportunity as the umbrella under which the global opportunity will likely be evaluated .