Netflix Big International Gamble Is Starting To Pay Off
Netflix , which recently leapt ahead of `` big cable '' in the US has also shown international growth , meaning its non-US customers outnumber those domestically according to Statista .
Of course , the difference is currently tiny , but it 's a sign that the big international gamble it took in 2016 is starting to pay off .
It 's likely this is just the tip of the iceberg too .
I was in the audience at the Netflix keynote at CES when it announced that it was switching on its service in almost every country on Earth .
It felt like a big deal then , but in the heat of the press conference , things can often seem more impressive than the reality .
But it became apparent quite quickly that Netflix is playing a smart game here .
No matter what , there 's a cap on the number of subscribers it can pick up on US soil .
The absolute maximum is probably the same as the number of US households , which is about 126 million .
Netflix has about 103 million total global subscribers , it 's likely that it will bust through that US maximum in the next five or so years if growth continues .
Netflix does n't operate in China because censorship makes it impossible and it does n't sell services in places banned through US restrictions .
Those nations are Syria , North Korea and Crimea .
That leaves 190 countries and nearly six billion people who could potentially take the service .
There is no other paid service that offers this sort of reach or potential customer numbers .
Only YouTube could really claim better access to people , and its paid services are still very limited in availability .
So it seems that this is great news for investors , with Netflix stock opening at an all-time high of $ 154.55 .
Netflix even broke its own estimate for growth , having predicted 3.2 million new customers but delivering 5.2 million .
The company is bullish about Q3 as well , claiming it will add another 4.5 million .
What does this mean ?
Well , it validates Netflix 's strategy of creating in-house content .
That works because there are no complicated global rights negotiations .
Netflix may well offer some great regional film and TV choices , but it will be Netflix originals that draw in new customers .
That gets even more complicated when you have to also start producing regional shows to keep those customers happy .
But any detractor that claims Netflix spending is `` unrealistic '' perhaps is n't grasping the business model .
Netflix knows its costs well , it knows how much it can spend each year on producing shows and movies and it 's got real stability that is n't tied to a fluctuating advertising market .
And as someone who 's paid for a subscription from the start of its arrival here , in the UK , I can say that while I would n't describe myself as watching a huge amount of Netflix , I still rate it as excellent value .
I 'm happy to keep paying for it , especially as it plans to deliver me 17 new episodes of Arrested Development in 2018 .