Netflix Is a Joke -- and the Joke Is on You
Netflix is out to prove it has a sense of humor , even at its own expense .
Mysterious billboards began to pop up in Los Angeles and the Hell 's Kitchen neighborhood of New York recently , setting social media abuzz and confusing passersby , commuters , and random pedestrians .
The target of the curious crusade was streaming pioneer Netflix , Inc. .
The billboards displayed a stark white background featuring large , plain black letters that declared `` Netflix is a Joke '' .
Some posited that it was the work of streaming competitors Amazon.com , Inc. or Hulu , while others could n't make heads or tails of the occurrence .
It was soon revealed that the perpetrator of the prank was none other than Netflix itself , designed to draw attention to recent high-profile deals for comedy programming .
Several A-list comedians , including Jerry Seinfeld , Dave Chappelle , and Chris Rock , have announced specials that will appear on the streaming platform .
The campaign will be expanding in the near future , featuring short videos of the comedians promoting their upcoming specials .
Stars of other Netflix original programs are expected to make cameos .
Several high-profile comedians will debut specials on the streaming platform .
The joke 's on you
Earlier this year , Netflix announced a deal with Seinfeld that would bring his popular web series Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee to the streaming service , along with two stand-up specials .
The first special , Jerry Before Seinfeld will debut later this month .
Dave Chappelle agreed to release three all-new comedy specials for Netflix , while Chris Rock signed on for two .
Earlier this year , it was revealed that Netflix would release a stand-up comedy each week for the rest of the year .
Netflix has been investing in a stable of bankable comedians lately , with Amy Schumer , Sarah Silverman , Ellen DeGeneres , and Tracy Morgan joining the star-studded lineup .
This is n't anything new .
The company has long been known for stacking its queue with comedy , and has enlisted the talents of well-known comedians Kevin Hart , Louis C.K. , Jeff Dunham , Jim Gaffigan , and Gabriel Iglesias .
Netflix also turned heads in 2014 when it signed comedian Adam Sandler to a four-movie deal , leaving many to scratch their heads .
The company revealed earlier this year that it was extending that deal , upping the ante to eight Sandler-helmed movies .
The Ridiculous 6 , the first of the films produced under the agreement , proved to be wildly popular on the streaming service .
Netflix revealed that since the debut of the movie , subscribers had watched `` more than half a billion hours '' of Sandler films .
Laughter is the best medicine
Netflix has a number of incentives to aggressively pursue stand-up comedy deals .
The first may be simple economics .
While a series can easily run north of $ 100 million , Netflix has been scooping up top-tier comedians for $ 10 million to $ 20 million per special .
Stand-up from lesser-known names can be had for as little as $ 3 million a show .
This helps balance out the more pricey programs .
Netflix also likely wants to be known as the premier platform for stand-up comedy .
Time Warner 's HBO once dominated the genre , and landing a stand-up special on the network could be a career maker for a young comedian .
In an oft quoted interview with GQ , Netflix 's chief content officer Ted Sarandos famously quipped `` The goal is to become HBO faster than HBO can become us . ''
Dominating a comedy landscape once ruled by its more mature rival is not only smart , but may be a point of pride as well .
Getting the last laugh
Netflix has been spending lavishly on content , which is expected to top $ 6 billion in 2017 .
While comedy will only account for a portion of that spending , Netflix has signaled its aspirations in the space by courting some of the top comedians .
With over 100 million subscribers worldwide , the streaming giant wants something for everyone , and its recent ambitious foray into comedy may do just that .