Netflix 's stock is worth only about one-third of where it trades today
In the past three weeks , Netflix has cancelled two of its original series `` Sense8 '' and `` The Get Down '' after canceling only five series from 2013-2017 .
These cancellations come on the heels of executives ' comments about needing a better return on investment .
When taken together , it 's clear Netflix is beginning to acknowledge the challenging economics of producing original content , just as we warned in April 2016 .
Creating successful original content is very costly and very hit-or-miss .
The surfacing of this ugly truth could be a catalyst for more investors to question the viability of Netflix 's business model and to send its shares to a more rational level , which is close to $ 50 according to our reverse discounted cash flow modeling scenarios and about one-third the level of where they trade today .
Apart from the two cancellations , Netflix 's streaming content obligations continue to grow faster than revenue .
We first warned about Netflix 's alarming streaming-content obligation growth in 2014 .
Since then , the issue has only worsened as free cash flow has fallen further .
Since 2010 , content obligations have grown 42 % compounded annually while revenue has grown 24 % compounded annually , per Figure 1 .
At the end of the first quarter of 2017 , content obligations totaled $ 15.3 billion and have grown faster than revenue year over year in six of the past seven years .
Netflix Chief Content Officer Ted Sarandos recognized this issue when he stated `` a big expensive show for a tiny audience is hard , even in our model , to make that work very long . ''
As Netflix 's content obligations increase , its free cash flow ( FCF ) only grows more negative .
Since 2010 , the last year Netflix generated positive FCF and first year it began increasing its content library , Netflix has burned through a cumulative $ 6.4 billion in cash , per Figure 2 .
Netflix could certainly justify the massive content costs were it rapidly expanding its membership base .
One could argue that membership growth and subsequent revenue more than offsets the costs of creating original content .
However , Netflix 's membership growth rates , both domestically and abroad , have been slowing for quite some time .
Per Figure 3 , international members grew 39 % year over year in the first quarter of 2017 , down from 65 % in the first quarter of 2016 and 78 % in the first quarter of 2014 .
Similarly , domestic members grew 8 % year over year in the first quarter of 2017 , down from 13 % in the first quarter of 2016 and 22 % in the first quarter of 2014 .
When we first placed Netflix in the Danger Zone in November 2013 , we focused on two competitors in the streaming video segment : Amazon Prime and Hulu .
Since then , the streaming video market has grown dramatically , and Netflix has lost much of its early-mover advantage , as we detailed in July 2016 .
Today , the market is highly fragmented with competitors offering live TV bundles , original content , and exclusive access to content from certain movie studios to attract customers .
A non-exhaustive list of competitors can be seen below : The increase in competition leaves limited pricing power , a linchpin for the viability of Netflix .
Without pricing power , Netflix ca n't afford to continue to do all the things that have helped management hype the stock , such as invest in growing original content , attracting new members and maintaining its large content library .
As we have written for some time , investors wo n't tolerate huge cash flow losses forever .
The recent revelations about not being able to afford to continue to invest in original content indicate that key investors are , in fact , losing patience and are n't as willing to continue to fund the company 's large cash losses .
Accordingly , all investors , not just the bankers and insiders , should beware , especially since the valuation of the stock has yet to recognize the cracks in the Netflix bull thesis .
Now that investors are beginning to acknowledge the true economics of Netflix 's business , the time to value Netflix based on fundamentals has arrived .
Netflix investors should be afraid , very afraid .
The future cash flow expectations embedded in the stock price make Netflix one of the most overvalued stocks in the market .
Here 's why : Even if Netflix can maintain trailing 12-month margins on net operating profit after tax 5 % and can grow net operating profit after tax ( NOPAT ) by 25 % compounded annually for the next decade , the stock is worth only $ 52 today -- a 66 % downside .
This scenario assumes Netflix can grow revenue by consensus estimates in 2017 27 % and 2018 20 % , and 20 % each year thereafter .
To further illustrate just how overvalued Netflix remains , we quantify three scenarios for the improvement in margins , subscribers , and/or revenue that is required to justify the current stock price of $ 152 .
For reference , Netflix currently has just under 99 million paying subscribers , and there are 248 million potential subscribers people 18 and above in the United States .
Scenario 1 : If we assume that Netflix maintains its current price structure , its current pretax margins 6.4 % , and can grow revenue by consensus estimates for 2017 and 2018 and by 23 % thereafter average of last five years , the company must grow NOPAT by 26 % compounded annually for the next 15 years to justify its current share price of $ 152 .
In this scenario , Netflix would generate of $ 198 billion in revenue 15 years from now , which at current subscription prices implies the company would have 1.6 billion subscribers .
For comparison , Disney 's DIS , -0.44 % revenue of the trailing 12 months is $ 55.5 billion .
Scenario 2 : If we assume that Netflix adopts a strategy that improves margins by doubling prices at the expense of revenue growth , the current expectations are still overly optimistic .
If Netflix can increase pretax margins to 13.2 % which was the highest in company history , reached in 2010 , and grow revenue by 12 % half the five-year average , the company must grow NOPAT by 16 % compounded annually for 28 years to justify its current price .
In this scenario , Netflix would be generating over $ 186 billion in revenue 28 years from now , which at double current subscription prices implies the company would have 776 million subscribers .
Scenario 3 : Even if we assume Netflix is able to drastically improve margins through price increases without any impact on revenue growth , shares are still overvalued .
If Netflix can achieve 13.2 % pretax margins and grow revenue by consensus estimates for 2017 and 2018 and by 23 % thereafter , the company must grow NOPAT by 37 % compounded annually for the next decade to justify the current price .
In this scenario , Netflix would generate over $ 70 billion in revenue 10 years from now , which at double current subscription prices implies the company would have 239 million subscribers , nearly triple its current user base .
Each of these scenarios also assumes Netflix is able to grow revenue and NOPAT without spending on working capital or fixed assets , an assumption that is unlikely , but allows us to create unquestionably optimistic scenarios .
For reference , the company 's invested capital has grown on average $ 1.4 billion 15 % of 2016 revenue a year over the last five years .
Figure 4 summarizes three potential scenarios for the profit growth needed to justify a $ 152 share price .
Clearly , the current valuation of Netflix implies a future cash flow stream that even the strongest of business models would be challenged to achieve .
Given the flaws in Netflix 's business and the market 's increasing awareness of them , investors are taking imprudent risk with the stock at anywhere close to its current valuation .