Razor Wars Continue : Gillette Cut by Old-Time Rival
Edgewell Personal Care Co. 's ( EPC ) Schick razor brand has announced this week the launch of its own online shave club , right after Procter & Gamble Co. 's ( PG ) Gillette did the same this month in efforts to step up its game against Unilever 's ( UL ) Dollar Shave Club .
Disruption Nicks
P&G 's Gillette Unit Schick , the No. 2 razor brand in America , says its online subscription service will sell blades that fit on Gillette handles but at a fraction of the cost .
The news comes as another blow to Gillette 's business , which saw its U.S. market share slip from 70 % in 2011 to 54 % in 2016 , according to Euromonitor .
At the same time that the razor market shrinks due to Millennial 's growing taste for beards , P&G has struggled to compete with a wave of cheaper alternatives and new startup brands .
In particular , Unilever 's Dollar Shave Club is very popular among Millennials , getting its big break with a viral video on YouTube featuring a giant teddy bear .
In response to a tough razor market , P&G said it would slash Gillette prices by 12 % and focus on lower-cost products .
Earlier this month , Gillette launched an on-demand subscription service allowing customers to text and receive products at their doors , hoping its new `` ease of ordering '' option will reel in busy , tech-savvy consumers .
Schick 's platform , SchickHydro.com , launches on Wednesday and will allow customers to sign up for shipments of Hydro Connect blades that work with Gillette 's Mach 3 and Fusion as well as Schick blades .
The move comes a little late for the razor maker , as brands such as Dollar Shave Club and Harry 's have dominated the online service club business for the past several years .
As Schick 's share of the men 's razor market has declined from 19 % in 2011 to 15 % , the firm says it needs to `` provide something that 's unique . ''
`` It 's not a secret that the shave clubs have not made money , and we need to make money , '' said Edgewell spokesman Chris Gough .
Edgewell hopes to target the same weak point P&G saw in Dollar Shave Club 's model , pointing to an inflexible delivery plan that leaves many customers with a stockpile of blades .
The company says Schick customers will be able to order as infrequently as once every nine months .
Shares of Cincinnati-based P&G have gained 10 % in the 12-month period , despite dropping off significantly after a disappointing quarterly earnings report in April .
Edgewater stock has declined 8.9 % over the most recent one-year period , while Unilever has rallied nearly 30 % in the approximately three-month period following a failed $ 143 bid by Kraft Heinz Co. KHC .