P&G CEO David Taylor helps launch massive diversity initiative involving 150 firms
Procter & Gamble Co. chief executive officer David Taylor played a key role in launching what is being called the nation 's largest CEO-driven business commitment to advance workplace diversity and inclusion .
The formation of CEO Act!on for Diversity & Inclusion was revealed today , and its first imperative is reaching out to the thousands of employees of more than 150 major firms to encourage open discussion of race relations and gender equality .
P&G itself has about 95,000 employees worldwide with about 10,000 in Greater Cincinnati .
Other CEOs of Cincinnati-based firms who have signed on include Rodney McMullen of Kroger Co. , Greg Carmichael of Fifth Third Bank and Jeff Gennette of Macy 's Inc. .
Half of the managers are women at the Cincinnati-based maker of consumer products such as Pampers diapers , and one-third of its employees are minorities in the United States , said Taylor , a member of the 10-person steering committee of CEO Act!on for Diversity & Inclusion .
The CEOs believe that diversity is good for the economy , noting that it improves corporate performance and enhances employee engagement .
`` Unfortunately , as we see in the news every day , the state of diversity and inclusion is a real issue in our country right now , '' Taylor said .
`` I believe businesses can play a critical role in addressing these challenges .
`` The power of this commitment is the bias toward action -- seeing something , saying something and then doing something about it , '' Taylor said .
`` Diversity is about making sure we have the right mix of talent .
Inclusion is about using that diversity to make us all stronger .
It takes both . ''
At Kroger , `` every day , we open our doors to nearly 9 million customers and associates , '' McMullen said .
`` It is essential that our business and our suppliers reflect the diversity of our customers and our country . ''
Fifth Third 's Carmichael said inclusion and diversity are consistent with Fifth Third Bank 's vision and essential to achieving its business objectives .
`` We support our commitment with solid actions , including expanding our relationships with historically black colleges and universities and offering a maternity concierge to new mothers , '' Carmichael said .
At Macy 's `` we are committed to an experience in our stores and our company where each of our customers and associates feels safe , comfortable and respected , '' Gennette said .
`` We are happy to join the CEO Act!on to learn from other companies and share our experience .
Working collaboratively , across brands and industries , will help us all move forward more quickly on the important work of building truly diverse and inclusive companies . ''
A key part of what the companies are doing is sharing best practices -- as well as unsuccessful ones -- with regard to diversity and inclusion .
The group 's website , ceoaction.com , is highlighting what companies do well or poorly .
For example , visitors to the website can look to see what P&G is doing on gender equality and then connect with somebody at P&G to learn how to replicate some aspects of a proven program .
`` At P&G , we have much to share , '' Taylor said .
`` Yet , we still have much to learn .
By joining in this commitment , we 'll get access to other thinking , ideas and practices that will help us expand our own capabilities and make even more progress in our efforts to create an inclusive environment where diverse people can come together and offer their best thinking , ideas and performance . ''
The intent is address the needs of underrepresented groups within business and increase equity for all employees , including blacks , Latinos , Asians , Native Americans , LGBTQ , disabled , veterans and women .
Firms that are n't part of today 's launch are welcome to join the effort .
A CEO Act!on for Diversity & Inclusion Summit will be held this fall .
The project has been in the works for a number of months , and P&G 's involvement was an outgrowth of a phone conversation between Taylor and Tim Ryan , U.S. chairman of PricewaterhouseCoopers .
The idea was generated by Ryan , who had been chairman of PwC about a week last year when five police officers were killed by a gunman during a protest in Dallas over police shootings of African-Americans in Minnesota and Louisiana .
Ryan , who is chairman of CEO Act!on , was inspired to form the group after a company email that was meant to reassure employees of the accounting firm elicited little response .
One of the goals of CEO Act!on is to let employees know it 's OK to discuss topics such as race relations .
A number of other P&G employees at various levels were involved behind the scenes in making CEO Act!on for Diversity & Inclusion become a reality .
P&G , which is the world 's largest advertiser , helped with development of the new group 's website .
P&G chief marketing officer Marc Pritchard is helping with the overall branding and positioning of CEO Act!on .
Damon Jones , director of global company communications for P&G , is on the new group 's communications committee .
`` Our purpose is communicating that the collaborative exists and bringing more people into the fold , '' Jones said .
The CEOs `` are stepping up and saying we as business leaders have an important role to play to ensure work spaces are safe places for conversation on difficult issues and we desire to play an active role in that discussion , '' Jones told me .
P&G 's contribution has consisted mostly of in-kind services .
`` It 's not an investment as of yet , '' Jones said .
Others involved in the initiative include American Express CEO Kenneth Chenault , who is a member of the P&G board .
The initiative also includes chief executives of companies with a strong Cincinnati presence , including Delta Airlines CEO Ed Bastian .
The steering committee of CEO Act!on for Diversity & Inclusion includes Taylor , Ryan and the CEOs of Accenture , BCG , Deloitte US , the Executive Leadership Council , EY , General Atlantic , KPMG and New York Life .