P&G names vice chairman , promotes two other top executives
CEO and chairman David Taylor today named chief financial officer Jon Moeller as vice chairman .
Two other high-level P&G executives also got promotions , with one being named a company president , Taylor revealed today to the leadership team of the Cincinnati-based maker of consumer goods such as Olay skin care .
Moeller , 53 , a 29-year veteran of the company who is based in Cincinnati , will remain CFO when he adds the title of vice chairman on July 1 .
He wo n't be joining the board , over which Taylor presides .
P&G last had a vice chairman in 2014 , the year that both Werner Geissler and Dimitri Panayotopoulos retired with that title .
P&G declined to reveal whether Moeller 's compensation would increase .
He received more than $ 6.8 million in fiscal 2015-16 , down nearly 3 percent from the more than $ 7 million he took home in the previous year .
`` This appointment recognizes his sustained and meaningful impact across P&G and reflects the critical role Jon continues to play in executing P&G 's transformation , including leadership for our Global Business Services and information technology organizations , '' Taylor said .
Moeller was named CFO in January 2009 .
He had previously been treasurer .
He joined P&G in 1988 as a cost analyst for food products .
A Covington resident , he is president of the board of the Cincinnati Art Museum .
He also is on the board of Monsanto Co. .
Alexandra `` Alex '' Keith , 49 , who joined P&G in 1989 as a team manager for product supply and is now president of Global Skin & Personnel Care business , will succeed Patrice Louvet as group president for Global Beauty on July 1 .
Louvet , 52 , resigned June 30 to become CEO of New York-based Lauren , effective July 17 .
She will relocate from Singapore to Geneva .
`` Alex comes into the role with a history of strong business results , outstanding beauty know-how , and a deep understanding of the industry and markets , '' Taylor said .
Markus Strobel , 52 , now vice president and general manager for P&G 's Global Skin & Personal Care business , will succeed Keith as president of that division on July 1 .
The 26-year veteran of the company is based in Singapore .
Before moving to Asia , he was vice president and brand franchise leader of Braun , one of P&G 's billion-dollar brands .
`` Markus has been tremendously successful leading SK-II , and like Alex , has deep experience in beauty and the skin care category , specifically , '' Taylor said .
`` They are the right leadership team to drive growth in our beauty business . ''