Why You Should Watch AT&T 's Costs Carefully
Key Updates : What 's Happening in the US Telecom Industry ?
Workers clamoring for better pay and benefits
AT&T T is negotiating new labor contracts with its employees .
In some cases , the company has ratified agreements with the workers concerned , but in other cases the talks are ongoing .
Some of these talks are contentious with threats of strikes .
About 17,000 employees in AT&T 's landline division in California and Nevada are pressing for higher wages , improved healthcare benefits , and job security in new contract negotiations .
In AT&T 's wireless division , some 21,000 workers who are members of the CWA Communications Workers of America Union are seeking better employment terms .
AT&T employees are n't only seeking higher wages and improved benefits , but they are also pressing the company to bring back outsourced jobs .
However , this move would push up the company 's expenses because outsourcing is one way for companies to lower their operating costs .
Impact on operating costs
These labor negotiations will likely leave AT&T with a higher payroll bill , which could drive up its operating expenses .
The company reported operating expenses of $ 32.5 billion in 1Q17 , a slight decline from $ 33.4 billion in the corresponding quarter last year , as illustrated in the above chart .
But as new labor contracts take effect , future operating costs will be higher , potentially hurting profitability .
Limited room to grow revenue
To make up for the rising expenses , AT&T must find a way to increase its revenues at a faster rate .
But how can it do that in a maturing phone carrier market ?
Competition in the US SPY wireless market has come down to poaching subscribers from competitors .
Smaller players like T-Mobile ( TMUS ) and Sprint ( S ) have taken serious measures to lure customers from market leaders AT&T and Verizon ( VZ ) .
Though AT&T is diversifying into the media business , the industry is equally competitive , and there is no guarantee its efforts will be successful .