AT&T 's DirecTV Now went flat after January , report says
AT&T 's DirecTV Now product attracted hundreds of thousands of subscribers during the early , promotional days of the product before leaking numbers in the months following , according to a report from Bloomberg .
The streaming TV service , which has helped the company ease the revenue pains caused by cord-cutters , reached 328,000 subscribers by the end of January , according to sources cited by Bloomberg .
But the product lost 3,000 subscribers in February and went flat in March , the story says .
The narrative fits with the tone of recent comments about the product by AT&T executives .
CFO John Stephens said during the Q1 earnings call that the company has `` deliberately pulled back on marketing to see the platform mature and improve . ''
Speaking at a conference a couple weeks ago , AT&T President of Technology and Operations Bill Hogg took those comments a step further , saying that the company had been caught off guard by the fast growth .
Many of the subscribers that flocked to the service complained of error codes and glitches .
`` It ramped up a lot faster than we ever thought it would , which is a great thing but also caught us a bit flat-footed on a couple things , '' he said .
CEO Randall Stephenson echoed the sentiment at a conference this week .
One big driver in the early days was a promo that offered the product 's `` Go Big '' package of 100 + channels , usually priced at $ 60 a month , for just $ 35 .
Those who took advantage would be grandfathered into the price , AT&T promised .
The deal ended in January .
The streaming TV marketplace is also getting increasingly crowded .
Google 's YouTube and Hulu have joined Dish 's Sling TV and Playstation Vue , which beat AT&T to the market .
Whether the company will be able to turn the growth back on as fast as it was switched off remains to be seen .
As for the technical issues , Hogg said earlier this month that things were improving .
`` What we 're seeing is the error rates are declining pretty fast and that the platform is stabilizing , '' he said .