AT&T Inc. is Running out of Room to Grow ... What 's Next ?
Can new mergers , media bundles , and wireless plans make the telecom giant an exciting investment again ?
AT&T was an unimpressive investment over the past year , slumping 10 % as the S&P 500 rose 8 % .
It delivered mixed numbers last quarter , with earnings matching estimates but revenue growth missing expectations by $ 1.2 billion .
It added 2.7 million wireless subscribers , but lost about 350,000 subscribers in its postpaid market .
Analysts expect AT&T 's revenue to dip 2 % this year , but for its earnings boosted by buybacks to rise 2 % .
But AT&T does n't plan for its business to stagnate .
It already became the biggest pay TV provider in the U.S. after it bought DirecTV in 2015 , and it plans to become one of the world 's top media companies by buying Time Warner .
Let 's examine four ways AT&T plans to grow over the next few years .
1. Closing the Time Warner deal
AT&T 's proposed $ 85.4 billion takeover of Time Warner must clear some regulatory hurdles before it can be approved .
But in April , the FCC made things much easier for AT&T by skipping a lengthy public-interest review .
The FCC also stated that as long as the merger did n't cover any FCC licenses , it did n't have `` the legal authority '' to review the transaction -- despite opposition from Senate Democrats and Mignon Clyburn , the only Democrat on the FCC .
Simply put , Time Warner just needs to divest its FCC licenses -- like the one it recently sold for a TV station in Atlanta -- to gain the commission 's approval .
The merger could still be blocked by the Department of Justice , but Trump 's appointed DOJ antitrust chief , Makan Delrahim , previously stated that he did n't see the merger as `` a major antitrust problem . ''
2. Strengthening its sponsored data ecosystem
AT&T expects the Time Warner purchase to become accretive to its free cash flow and earnings within the first year .
But more importantly , it could greatly expand AT&T 's '' sponsored data '' bundles -- which offer data-free streaming content from AT&T , U-verse , its partners , and DirecTV for wireless customers .
Adding Time Warner content ( like HBO Now ) to those bundles could threaten streaming leaders like Netflix .
Doing this addresses AT&T 's two biggest long-term challenges -- a gradual shift away from pay TV services toward streaming platforms , and the stagnating growth in postpaid wireless subscribers .
By bundling data-free streaming options with its wireless plans , AT&T can lock in users while reducing the appeal of Netflix and other streaming platforms .
3. Surviving the unlimited data blitz
AT&T also needs to counter Verizon , Sprint , and T-Mobile in the ongoing price war over unlimited data plans .
AT&T previously offered unlimited data plans as a bundled feature for DirecTV and U-verse subscribers , but it was forced to counter the other three carriers with a stand-alone unlimited plan in February .
AT&T 's prices remain slightly higher than Verizon , Sprint , and T-Mobile 's for most users .
It 's also the only carrier which does n't offer Wi-Fi hotspot tethering with its plans .
To expand its reach beyond smartphones , AT&T offers a value-added service for connecting devices like tablets , connected cars , wearables , and feature phones to the plan at lower prices .
AT&T has already lowered its prices since February , and it will likely need to keep cutting prices as the price war rages on .
However , any market share gains would likely help it expand its digital ecosystem .
4. Connecting other wireless devices
Diversifying away from U.S. postpaid smartphones is a central theme for AT&T 's wireless business .
That 's why it bought prepaid wireless provider Cricket Wireless part of Leap Wireless in 2014 , and why it 's been expanding its wireless business in Mexico .
But it 's not just about smartphones anymore .
AT&T has been testing out autonomous drones for LTE networks with Intel and Qualcomm , and it plans to connect over 10 million of Ford 's connected vehicles to the internet by 2020 .
All these moves should help AT&T continue to add wireless subscribers , even as its domestic postpaid business stagnates .
The key takeaways
Many investors , including myself , own AT&T as an income play .
It 's a reliable dividend aristocrat which has hiked its payout annually for over three decades .
But investors should also remember that this `` new '' AT&T is n't the same telecom giant which was forcibly broken up decades ago , and that it 's still growing and evolving with new wireless , pay TV , and media acquisitions .