AT&T 's Time Warner Deal Looking Likely , Will It Be A Catalyst For The Stock ?
AT&T 's proposed $ 85 billion acquisition of Time Warner is increasingly looking like a done deal .
The acquisition is likely in the final stages of the review process with the U.S. Justice Department , and both companies have indicated that the deal should close by the end of this year .
The markets also appear to be very optimistic about the deal 's prospects , as the merger arbitrage spread has shrunk considerably in recent months .
For instance , Time Warner 's stock price has risen to levels of around about $ 102 currently , just below AT&T 's offer valued at roughly $ 107.50 per share .
The stock was trading at just about $ 85 after the deal was announced in October last year .
AT&T also appears to be in the midst of raising funds for the purchase , selling $ 22.5 billion of bonds late last month .
There 's a possibility that the acquisition could prove to be a catalyst for AT&T 's stock , which has been fairly listless over the last five years , amid low growth and significant competition in its bread-and-butter wireless business .
We have a $ 42 price estimate for AT&T , which is about 10 % ahead of the current market price .
The deal would effectively combine AT&T 's wired and wireless distribution platforms with Time Warner 's broad entertainment assets , which include HBO , Warner Brothers and CNN .
This could potentially allow AT&T to manage its content costs across its video platforms ( DirecTV , DTV Now , U-Verse ) , while improving its bargaining leverage in acquiring content from other companies .
With the internet and mobile devices playing a larger role in content distribution and consumption , the Time Warner deal could put AT&T in a position of strength as the industry evolves .
For perspective , Comcast 's stock is up more than 3x post its purchase of media behemoth NBC Universal in 2011 .
While AT&T and Comcast are very different companies , there remains a possibility that a media deal could change the narrative around AT&T 's stock .