AT&T 's Tax Cut Bonus Is n't Just a Gimmick
The cost of corporate taxes is ultimately borne by workers , shareholders and customers .
Yes , AT&T Inc. chief executive Randall Stephenson 's announcement that his company will be paying out $ 1,000 bonuses to 200,000 workers in the wake of the passage of a big corporate tax cut is probably to some extent a lobbying ploy . 1*
AT&T , as many , many people have noted this afternoon , has a giant acquisition ( of Time Warner Inc. ) currently being held up by antitrust regulators .
It has every reason , then , to want to curry favor with the man for whom the tax bill represents a first major legislative victory , President Donald Trump .
But Stephenson 's move is also a simple representation of what a lot of economists think is the natural result of a cut in corporate taxes .
Corporations themselves do n't ultimately pay taxes .
As veteran tax wonk Bruce Bartlett put it a few years ago : `` They are legal entities that exist only because governments permit them to and are artificial vehicles through which sales , wages and profits flow .
Hence , the actual burden of the corporate tax may fall on any of the groups that receive such flows ; namely , customers , workers and shareholders . ''
It was once believed that shareholders bore almost all of that burden .
In recent decades , though , economists have increasingly come around to the idea that workers shoulder much or even most of it .
That 's because , as my Bloomberg View colleague Mihir Desai ( of Harvard Business School and Harvard Law School ) put it to me in 2014 , `` Those other folks are pretty mobile .
The workers are n't . ''
That is , investors can choose to buy shares in firms operating in countries with lower corporate taxes .
Customers can choose to buy things from firms in other countries .
Workers can migrate , but it 's a lot harder .
So that 's the theory .
There is some evidence too : One 2009 empirical study of 55,082 European companies by economists from the U.K. and Germany found that `` an exogenous rise of $ 1 in tax would reduce the wage bill by 49 cents . ''
A new study of businesses in Germany , where municipalities levy corporate taxes at different rates , came to the similar conclusion that `` 51 percent of the corporate tax burden is passed onto workers . ''
Kevin Hassett , the chairman of President Trump 's Council of Economic Advisers , took a lot of flak from other economists ( and from me ) for a report that seemed to claim that workers would get a wage boost 2.5 to 5.6 times bigger than the actual corporate tax cut .
But the assertion that some of the corporate tax cut will flow to workers actually is n't controversial at all .
And in general , the corporate section of the new tax legislation is , as my Bloomberg View colleague Noah Smith wrote in October , the part most grounded in economic research and good sense .
AT&T workers likely wo n't be the only ones getting pay boosts as a result of it .
The question is whether the rest of this inequality-increasing , deficit-boosting , tax-gamesmanship-encouraging law will cancel out those gains .
1* About 20,000 unionized employees of AT&T 's Mobility Orange unit had already been promised a $ 1,000 lump sum payment as part of a tentative contract agreement last week , but the company says the newly announced bonus is in addition to that .