Wells Fargo eliminates management roles in embattled community bank
Wells Fargo is recovering from a sales scandal that rocked its community bank operations .
In an effort to streamline its operations , Wells Fargo & Co. is consolidating regional management roles in its community bank .
The San Francisco-based bank is consolidating its regional president and area president roles into a new position called region bank president .
`` We believe this is the right go-forward structure for our community banking team as it will allow us to be more streamlined , efficient , and consistent across all of our markets , '' spokesperson Josh Dunn said in a statement .
Wells Fargo is recovering from a sales scandal that rocked its community bank operations .
The move reduces 160 positions across the country to 90 positions .
Consolidating the positions comes as the bank is recovering from a sales scandal that rocked its community bank .
Regulators fined the bank $ 185 million last September after learning employees opened potentially millions of unauthorized accounts to meet sales goals .
Since then Mary Mack , who took over as leader of the community bank last summer , has been trying to fix the culture in the retail bank by listening to employees , changing compensation structures and streamlining operations .
`` Consolidating the RP and AP roles gives us one role that is clearly defined and provides more consistency across our teams by reducing the levels of management and tightening controls , '' Dunn said .
In April , the bank 's board of directors released the findings of its independent investigation into the company 's sales practices .
That report pointed to a `` decentralized operating model , '' that contributed to the sales problems .
Responding to the report , CEO Tim Sloan said because of the decentralized operating model , the company 's leadership took too long to understand the scope of the problem , resulting in inadequate responses to the sales scandal .
Wells Fargo is the Charlotte region 's second-largest bank by local deposits and its largest financial-sector employer .
The bank keeps its headquarters in San Francisco , but Charlotte is home to its East Coast operations .