New York City Bars Wells Fargo From Banking Work After Scandals
- De Blasio says bank needs to improve track record of lending
- Wells Fargo trying to emerge from scandal over fake accounts
New York Mayor Bill de Blasio and Comptroller Scott Stringer blocked Wells Fargo & Co. from leading municipal bond sales or landing other banking business until it improves its track record of lending in poor communities .
The Democrats , who sit on the New York City Banking Commission , joined city Finance Commissioner Jacques Jiha , a de Blasio appointee , to ban the bank from conducting new work for the city .
The commission , which met Wednesday , approves and oversees the banks that hold city contracts .
The action from the nation 's most-populous city marks the latest effort by state and local government officials to punish Wells Fargo , whose reputation was battered by revelations that employees created fake accounts to meet sales quotas .
The New York officials said their ban would n't be reconsidered until the bank elevates its rating under the federal Community Reinvestment Act .
`` The rules are very clear : if you fall below ` satisfactory , ' we will no longer do banking business with you , '' de Blasio said in the statement .
`` I encourage Wells Fargo to quickly clean up its act and do right by the millions of customers who trust the bank with their savings . ''
Wells Fargo spokesman Gabriel Boehmer said the bank is making an effort to address criticism by the U.S. Office of the Comptroller of the Currency , which issued a needs-to-improve rating in March , citing the bank 's practices of selling unauthorized accounts and overcharging minority homebuyers with subprime mortgages .
`` We hope to restore a national CRA rating that reflects our strong track record of lending to , investing in , and providing service to low-and moderate-income communities , '' Boehmer said in an email .
City Comptroller Stringer said the bank committed fraud and should be punished .
`` We need to send a message to this bank and to the broader industry that ethics matter , '' Stringer said in an email .
`` Accountability is non-negotiable . ''
New York has about $ 227 million held in Wells Fargo accounts , and the bank acts as a trustee to the New York City Retiree Health Benefits Trust , which has assets of about $ 2.6 billion .
The city is also a major issuer of bonds .
Its proposed fiscal 2018 budget calls for the city to fund $ 13.4 billion of new capital spending , drawing from the sale of general-obligation , Transitional Finance Authority and Water Finance Authority debt .
The city 's step will prevent agencies from entering into new contracts with Wells Fargo or renewing existing ones when they expire .
It also suspends Wells Fargo from working as a senior book-running manager for municipal bonds for one year .