Wells Fargo 's headaches mount as Justice Department weighs in on whistleblower suit tied to Wachovia , World Savings
The U.S. Justice Department added to Wells Fargo 's woes Tuesday , filing a friend-of-the-court brief in a whistleblower lawsuit brought against the bank by two former employees , who were fired after they tried to report bad behavior they observed as supervisors .
The federal government remained neutral on the whistleblowers ' claims , but urged the court to revise the legal analysis it made in dismissing the case last year .
In February , the Supreme Court issued a ruling requesting that the lower court review the case .
The issues in the whistleblower case are separate from Wells Fargo 's fake accounts scandal that came to the public 's attention last September .
The whistleblower suit , filed in 2011 under the federal False Claims Act , argues that Wachovia and World Savings engaged in improper mortgage practices .
The suit also contends that Charlotte-based Wachovia deceived federal regulators by hiding billions of dollars in losses from them in seeking Federal Reserve loans .
In the throes of the financial crisis , Wells agreed to buy all of troubled Wachovia for about $ 15 billion in stock .
That transaction closed at the end of 2008 , making Wells the defendant in the whistleblower case .
One plaintiff in the whistleblower suit is Paul Bishop , a former residential mortgage sales representative at Oakland-based World Savings , which was a unit of Golden West Financial .
Wachovia purchased Golden West for $ 25 billion in a cash-and-stock deal that closed in 2006 , just as the historic housing bubble was deflating .
The other plaintiff is Robert Kraus , a former Wachovia executive focused on commercial real estate lending .
The lawsuit alleges that the fraud involved moving loans to an off-balance-sheet entity designed to make Wachovia 's books look better , the New York Times reported in February .
Wachovia insiders called the entity `` the Black Box . ''
No doubt Wall Street will be gauging investor reaction to this latest twist in a long-running whistleblower suit by watching Wednesday 's trading in the shares of Wells Fargo and its largest shareholder , Berkshire Hathaway .
Berkshire , led by Warren Buffett , owns approximately 10 percent of San Francisco-based Wells Fargo .
Wells Fargo finished trading in New York Tuesday at $ 51.81 per share , up 9 cents .
The bank 's stock was unchanged in after-hours trading .
The New York Times first reported on the Justice Department 's filing Tuesday evening .
Wells Fargo , which is the defendant in the case because it involves two of its predecessor banks , said it plans to continue defending itself against the whistleblowers ' claims .
`` We continue to believe these claims are without merit , as the previous court decisions have confirmed .
We look forward to the opportunity to again present legal arguments to the Second Court of Appeals , '' Wells Fargo spokesman Ruben Pulido told the San Francisco Business Times Tuesday evening .