Wells Fargo Found Liable In Abusive Tax Shelter Scheme
After its fake account scandal , the hits keep coming for Wells Fargo .
Now , Wells Fargo has been found liable in federal court for a 20 % IRS negligence penalty in connection with an abusive tax shelter .
Wells had claimed $ 350 million of foreign tax credits based on a tax shelter known as Structured Trust Advantaged Repackaged Securities or STARS .
Last year , a Minnesota jury verdict nixed the tax credits Wells had claimed , concluding that the transaction lacked both economic substance and a non-tax business purpose .
This trial was the second , this time determining if the smoke and mirrors STARS transaction had economic substance .
Wells Fargo contended that STARS was a single , integrated transaction that resulted in low-cost funding .
The jury did n't buy it , finding that in reality , STARS was really two economically distinct and independent transactions : a loan and a trust .
Regarding the loan , the jury found that Wells Fargo entered into the loan solely for tax-related reasons .
Regarding the trust , the jury found that it had no reasonable potential for pretax profit .
Besides , the jury found that Wells Fargo entered into the trust structure solely for tax reasons .
Complexity is a feature of almost every shelter .
How complex was STARS ?
In the transaction , Wells Fargo would voluntarily subject some of its income-producing assets to U.K. taxation by placing them in a trust with a U.K. trustee .
It would then offset those U.K. taxes by claiming foreign‐tax credits on its U.S. returns .
In turn , Barclays would get significant U.K. tax benefits as a result of Wells Fargo 's actions .
Barclays would compensate Wells Fargo for engaging in STARS by making a monthly payment .
Wells Fargo claimed foreign‐tax credits for the U.K. taxes that it paid in connection with STARS , but the IRS disallowed the credits on the ground that STARS was a sham and violated the economic substance requirements .
Barclays Bank PLC marketed the STARS transaction to American banks .
The shelter was designed to exploit differences between the tax laws in the United States and in the United Kingdom .
But STARS has not done well in litigation .
Three other courts have rejected STARS tax shelters that Bank of New York , BB&T Bank and Santander Bank purchased .
See Santander Holdings USA , Inc. v. United States , 844 F. 3d 15 1st Cir. 2016 , pet. for cert. filed , March 20 , 2017 No. 16‐1130 ;
Bank of N.Y. Mellon Corp. v. Comm'r , 801 F. 3d 104 2d Cir. 2015 , cert. denied , 136 S. Ct. 1377 2016 ;
Salem Fin. , Inc. v. United States , 786 F. 3d 932 Fed. Cir. 2015 , cert. denied , 136 S. Ct. 1366 2016 .
STARS started with foreign tax credits , something that is fundamental to U.S. tax law and seems downright fair .
U.S. companies can claim foreign tax credits on their U.S. taxes .
That way they are not taxed twice on the same profits .
But like just about everything else in U.S. tax law , the law is complex and sometimes even Byzantine .
The creative minds who cooked up STARS wanted to manufacture tax credits for Barclays , and for the U.S. corporate taxpayers that bought into the deal .
The idea was to circulate the U.S. income through an entity taxed in the U.K. , the IRS claimed .
But this really was not double-taxed in a way that qualifies for tax credits , said the IRS .
Because of the differences between U.S. and U.K. rules , STARS enabled Barclays to reimburse a U.S. company for half the tax paid in the U.K. without reducing the amount of foreign tax credits that could be claimed by either party .
For that and other reasons , the IRS said this was a shelter , pure and simple .
In large part , the court agreed .