Walmart 's Meal Kits Are Not The Solution To Fight Amazon
The nation 's largest food retailer announced this morning that it would roll out its own version of meal-kits to 2,000 of its stores this year .
Currently Walmart offers the kits , which retails from $ 8 to $ 15 and serves two people , in more than 250 stores .
Speculation in early February by Gabelli & Co. analyst Matthew Trusz was that Walmart was looking to acquire Blue Apron actually raised the troubled company 's stock price by almost 7 percent on February 2nd ; but it appears that Walmart has decided to enter the meal kit business on its own ( at least for now ) .
According to Nielsen 's latest report just released today , The Meal Kit Opportunity , while the majority of meal kits are purchased from online subscription services , in-store meal kit sales grew rapidly in the past year , up 26.5 % to $ 154.6 million in sales , posting growth of more than 26 % year-over-year .
Overall , the report states , 9 % of Americans say they 've purchased a meal kit in the last six months and 25 % of consumers say they would consider trying a meal kit in the next six months .
In December of 2017 , USDA published a report on Millenials eating and food purchasing habits and found that this generation , which now makes up roughly 26 percent of the total US population , eat out more frequently than other generations , spend more on prepared foods that require minimal preparation , spend less time preparing food at home and spend less money on foods to consume at home .
The report also found that nearly two-thirds of Millenials purchased prepared foods from limited service restaurants every week .
Tyler Lehr Walmart 's senior vice president of Deli Services said in the statement announcing the roll out of the program that `` more than 80 percent of Americans do n't know what they will have for dinner tonight .
Scrambling to find a meal `` puts pressure on a family . ''
Walmart 's roll out also includes fresh One Step Meals that only require heating -- which may have even a larger potential than their Meal Kits .
While Blue Apron , Hello Fresh , Martha & Marley and dozens of other DYI food kits tout that consumers enjoy the assembly process and how their kits make it so easy for the home cook to excel ; many people say they have already become bored with having to unpack all the ingredients and do all the preparation ; many also complain about the wasteful packaging that is required both in shipping and individually packaging each ingredient .
Supermarkets across the nation have rushed to offer meal kits in their sotes that eliminate the extra packaging required for shipping and the need to pre-order multiple meals which in some cases are delivered in three days .
In 2005 `` meal assembly stores '' were all the rage and according to the now defunct Easy Meal Preparation Association there were over 1,400 of these stores throughout the US .
Today Dream Dinners is one of the few chains to survive with 75 locations in 22 states .
Which makes one wonder if the Meal Kit trend might find itself in the same position .
Walmart 's strategy comes on the heels of Amazon announcement that it will be delivering its own prepared foods and meal kits from its Whole Foods stores .
While both companies have publicly said they are fierce competitors , this move by Walmart brings meal kits and prepared foods to a less affluent and larger base shopper than those who shop at Whole Foods .
It would not be surprising to also see these type of offerings start appearing in hipper packaging as they are a perfect fit for Walmart 's Jet.com business , which already sells a wide variety of Omaha Steak meat , seafood and side dish products .