Here 's Why the Best Is Yet to Come for Wal-Mart Stores Inc. .
The company has been gaining on a key rival thanks to one major move it made .
Wal-Mart has struggled during the so-called retail apocalypse .
The chain never found itself in the same dire straits that some of its rivals did , but for a period it was reasonable to wonder if Amazon.com was going to be able to take a meaningful piece of its business .
That 's still a risk , but it 's much less of one since Wal-Mart spent $ 3.3 billion buying Jet.com .
That deal was incredibly rich -- probably more than the company had to pay to buy a money-losing start-up with around $ 1 billion in sales -- but Wal-Mart got something very important for its billions : Jet.com CEO Marc Lore .
The serial entrepreneur , who previously sold Quidsi to Amazon , now runs Wal-Mart 's entire digital operation .
That 's very good news for Wal-Mart shareholders , as Lore has injected start-up thinking into a mature company .
That has already shown some payoff for the company , as it reported a 63 % gain in online sales in Q1 2018 , which the company said was mostly organic through Walmart.com .
Wal-Mart is improving its internal flexibility to deliver digital orders .
What has changed at Wal-Mart ?
Before Lore came on board , Wal-Mart was a bricks-and-mortar retailer that also had a website .
It used store-first thinking that crippled its efforts to grow its digital presence .
As the new e-commerce boss , Lore made the public change of scrapping the company 's $ 50-a-year Amazon Prime knockoff , ShippingPass .
That program , despite being half the price of Prime , was n't working , and Lore made the bold choice to offer free shipping on any order of eligible items over $ 35 .
That deal may not entice many Amazon customers to switch , especially because Prime has over 50 million eligible items while WalMart.com has only about 2 million .
It will , however , give Wal-Mart 's customers a reason to use its website rather than Amazon .
The biggest change Lore has made , however , is a top-to-bottom overhaul of how Wal-Mart thinks and how it organizes its operation .
He had worked , with the support of CEO Doug McMillon , to revamp the company 's supply lines and change its in-store system to facilitate shipping online orders , in-store-pickup , and store-based returns for online orders .
`` We 're transforming to become more of a digital enterprise , '' McMillion said during the Q1 earnings call .
`` The change is starting to be visible to our customers as they use online grocery , Walmart Pay , Scan & Go at Sam 's Club , and our Walmart app to skip the line when using our pharmacies and financial services in our U.S. stores . ''
Why is this important for Wal-Mart ?
While Wal-Mart was never in danger of going out of business if it had n't addressed its digital problem , it would have struggled to grow .
By offering a viable alternative to Amazon , the company quite simply raises its ceiling , giving it more customers it can reach .
That 's something Amazon has clearly noticed , as the online leader recently lowered the price of Prime for lower-income customers from $ 99 a year to $ 5.99 a month with no long-term commitment .
The program requires a valid electronic benefits transfer card to qualify for the discounted membership , and it certainly seems like a way to counteract Wal-Mart 's efforts .
This wo n't be easy
The presence of Lore , who has shown he knows how to take on Amazon , gives Wal-Mart a chance , but it 's not going to be a steady ride .
Offering free shipping may win customers , but it hurts margin .
Amazon has shown a willingness to make that sort of sacrifice , and if Wal-Mart does the same , it may suffer short-term pain to build long-term success .