Walmart taps store associates for last-mile delivery program
Walmart e-commerce chief Marc Lore the program is a `` special win-win-win for customers , associates and the business , '' and there 's a strong chance he 's right .
Discount retail giant Walmart is testing a new last-mile delivery program that aims to cut shipping costs and improve delivery times in an effort to better compete against Amazon .
The program utilizes the retailer 's existing store associates , giving employees the opportunity to earn extra income by delivering online orders on their way home from work .
The pilot is spearheaded by Marc Lore , chief executive of Walmart US e-commerce , who joined the retailer following its $ 3 billion acquisition of Jet.com in 2016 .
Workers `` earn extra income on their existing drive home , '' Lore wrote in a blog post .
`` Once they 're done working at the store for the day , they pick up the packages from the backroom , load them into their vehicle , enter the delivery addresses into the GPS on their phone and head toward home . ''
According to Lore , the program is a `` special win-win-win for customers , associates and the business , '' and there 's a strong chance he 's right .
Walmart has 4,700 US stores , and 90 percent of the US population lives within 10 miles of its brick-and-mortar locations .
That gives Walmart a tremendous advantage to implement an order fulfillment strategy that optimizes the power of its physical presence .
The program also helps Walmart innovate a key area of customer demand and combat a competitive disadvantage versus Amazon 's delivery options while also expanding the role of the traditional retail worker -- all of which makes a lot of sense in today 's uncertain retail landscape .
`` For Walmart to have the ability to map packages that are on their employees ' routes home and allow their team members to pick up extra wages is a good employee retention measure as well as a potential same-day delivery solution , '' said Sarah Engel , CMO of retail analytics firm DynamicAction .
`` There would be all sorts of obvious challenges to this model , if it was the sole solution for same day or next day delivery .
But , as one of an arsenal of solutions , it 's a very interesting test . ''
At this point the program is available in two New Jersey stores and one store in Northwest Arkansas .
Associates opt-in to participate as drivers , and use technology that Lore says lets workers set preferences for how many packages they want to deliver , weight limits for the packages , and which days they 're available to make deliveries .
The technology also aims to allocate packages in a way that minimizes the collective distance workers must travel off of their commute to make a delivery .
Looking at the bigger picture , the last-mile delivery program is an extension of Lore 's `` basket economics '' strategy used within Jet.com .
Simply put , basket economics is an e-commerce ops strategy that stresses logistics and supply chain to reduce costs .
The idea is to figure out the optimal way to ship a basket of goods to a consumer , at the lowest cost , and to make that process transparent to the consumer as they 're shopping .
Jet turned this into an algorithm that powers its Smart Cart digital shopping cart .
In April , Walmart launched the basket economics-inspired Pickup Discount service , which offers customers reduced prices on online-only items if they opt to pick up their orders in-store .
By all accounts , Pickup Discount is yet another way for Walmart to cut down on last-mile delivery costs , which tend to be the most expensive part of online order fulfillment .
Walmart previously tested last-mile delivery via partnerships with Uber , Lyft , and Deliv , with no significant results .
Now , Walmart is eyeing last-mile deliveries at scale .
While it 's unclear how this latest effort will shake out , Walmart 's e-commerce investments are showing results .
The company 's e-commerce sales soared by 63 percent in its most recent quarter .