Wal-Mart 's Sam 's Club Reinvents Its Private Brand
There was a time when house brands meant generic packaging and no-frills products .
You still see that in some supermarkets where sad-looking bags of cereal with names like `` Fruit Rings '' or `` Frosty Flakes '' sit on shelves next to their name-brand counterparts .
That 's no longer the norm , though , as many house brands look more like high-end products and while they still deliver value , that 's not the only reason they exist .
Whole Foods Market has even built an entire store concept around its 365 house brand .
The items in that line are cheaper than the name-brand products the chain sells , but they are not the old , grey packaging generics grocery chains once sold .
The same is true for Costco 's Kirkland brand , whose products mirror the quality of the name brands stocked by the chain .
Now , Wal-Mart 's Sam 's Club has reinvigorated and reimagined its own house brand .
The membership-based chain has totally redone its once varied array of private-label products , combining them all under a single name .
`` At one point , we had 21 private labels , '' said Sam 's Club President of Private Brands Chandra Holt in a press release .
`` So the first thing I set out to do was to simplify for our members .
We now have one private brand -- Member 's Mark . ''
A Sam 's Club public relations official further explained the consolidation in an email to The Motley Fool .
`` We hope this simplified approach helps our members easily recognize what our private brand is , '' said the statement provided by Amy Wyatt-Moore .
`` We want our members to know when they see the Member 's Mark label , they can trust we are offering a best-in-class product that can easily compete or beat its national brand counterpart . ''
In addition to consolidating under one name , Holt has also changed how Sam 's Club positions its house brand .
In order to do that , she spent `` countless hours in focus groups hearing from Sam 's Club members on what products they want to see the company offer . ''
She said that the results were clear , specifically in groceries .
Members wanted `` premium products made with simple ingredients and they wanted to know they were getting the best bang for the buck . ''
That sounds obvious , but it 's actually a switch from the past focus of not just Sam 's Club , but most house brands , where value alone was the driving force .
Having a house brand that shoppers equate with national name brands allows a chain to cut out a mouth that needs to be fed in the supply chain .
Instead of having to buy the item from its manufacturer , the retailer produces the item itself or uses a third-party producer .
That lets the chain obtain the item at a lower cost , letting it sell it for less money , likely at the same or a greater margin .
If the company , Sam 's Club in this case , can establish its house brand as a high-quality option , then consumers will opt for it over the name brand when possible .
That creates a positive cycle where shoppers switch to brands like Member 's Mark and are happy because they have spent less money .
That increases their loyalty to the retailer , which is especially important for a warehouse club like Sam 's Club , which succeeds or fails based on membership renewals .