Goldman expects Wal-Mart 's fortunes to improve alongside the consumer ’s
Goldman Sachs upgraded Wal-Mart to buy and put the retail giant on its Conviction List
Goldman Sachs thinks 2018 will be a good year for consumers , which means it will also be a good year for Wal-Mart Stores Inc. .
Goldman upgraded Wal-Mart to buy from neutral and put the retail giant on its Conviction List .
Its price target was moved up $ 2 to $ 117 .
Wal-Mart shares are up 1.1 % in Thursday trading .
`` We expect growth in disposable income to reaccelerate , helping to sustain a new plateau for consumption , with more consistent growth across verticals than we have noted in the recent low , stable growth phase of the recovery , '' wrote Goldman Sachs analysts .
`` This forecast reflects accelerating wage and income dynamics , and additional help from tax reform . ''
Goldman expects tax reform to give the biggest boost to consumption capability to those whose returns reflect an adjusted gross income of $ 200,000 to $ 1 million .
But those in the $ 40,000-to - $ 200,000 range should also feel a `` substantial '' impact .
Among the areas where Goldman thinks there will be year-over-year same-store sales increases are apparel , food and casual dining , `` and outright like-for-like declines at any point in the year only for department stores . ''
Despite the largely bullish outlook , Goldman analysts leave room for risk , noting that retail is still vulnerable to disruption .
On Wednesday , Instinet analysts noted the impact that a delayed start to the tax return season could have on certain retailers .
Weather is also frequently cited by retail executives as a factor that can both help or hurt results .
The consumer sector has become more bullish since late summer , and upbeat holiday season results suggest that some of the hurdles that have faced brick-and-mortar and traditional retailers may be lessening .
Wal-Mart has the advantage of being `` very much in control of its own destiny , '' Goldman writes .
`` The firm 's strategic positioning remains compelling -- selling consumables to middle-income consumers in small markets , '' the note said .
Among the key downside risks analysts highlight are competition from Amazon.com Inc. , discounters and traditional grocers .
Last week , Wal-Mart said it would use savings from the new tax reform law to offer a series of new associate benefits , including a raise in the minimum wage to $ 11 and bonuses of up to $ 1,000 , and expanded maternity and parental leave allowances .
Wal-Mart is expected to announce fourth-quarter earnings on Feb. 20 .
The company 's stock is up 21 % for the last three months while the Dow Jones Industrial Average is up 12.8 % for the period .