Wal-Mart Is ` Still Very Much In Control Of Its Own Destiny ' : Goldman Sachs Upgrade
Wal-Mart Stores ( WMT ) is `` still very much in control of its own destiny , '' says Goldman Sachs , which upgraded the nation 's largest brick-and-mortar retailer to a buy from neutral on Thursday , adding the stock to its `` conviction '' list .
For the last decade or so , retailers have been wrapping their heads around the increasingly digital-first consumer landscape with varying degrees of success , particularly as the act of shopping has evolved from mall strolls and mail-order catalogs to a high-tech logistics battle to be the first to shoppers ' doorsteps .
But Goldman analysts have faith in Wal-Mart 's longtime retail strategy , i.e. `` selling consumables to middle-income consumers in small markets , '' even as other retailers face such uncertainty .
They boosted their price target on the stock to 117 from 115 .
Tax reform and stronger income growth will benefit the mass market , they said , prompting them to edge up their same-store sales and earnings estimates for the company .
They also expect the big-box retailer to raise its dividend amid the redeployment of cash from tax savings .
A chunk of those savings should go toward Wal-Mart 's decision last week to raise its minimum wage to $ 11 an hour and dole out bonuses .
But Goldman Sachs analysts noted that Amazon ( AMZN ) , among other things , remains a potential risk , saying `` the potential for incremental competition from AMZN , hard discounters , and traditional grocers remains significant . ''
Shares of Wal-Mart rose 1.6 % to 104.30 on the stock market today , remaining in buy range .
Solid holiday figures have been lifting some retail stocks , such as Kohl 's ( KSS ) , although it 's uncertain whether strong sales in November and December will carry over through the new year .
Target ( TGT ) climbed 1.4 % , while Amazon dipped 0.1 % .
Wal-Mart 's wage-hike announcement , however , was overshadowed by the sudden closure of 63 Sam 's Clubs , which it owns , a move that caused a stir , since employees were reportedly not given any notice prior to the closings .
In addition to the thousands of layoffs that would produce , the company also plans to cut more than 1,000 corporate-level jobs .