Amazon.com , Inc Battle With Wal-Mart Stores , Inc Gets Dirty : Cuts Prices From Third-Party Sellers
Amazon.com , Inc is giving discounts on items from third-party merchants sold on its website in an effort to divert traffic from other e-commerce sources .
The move aims to lure customers and help the company continue to thrive amid the fierce competition in the retail and e-commerce businesses , and is namely a shot at rival Wal-Mart Stores , Inc , whose online presence has been picking up steam lately .
The discounts from Amazon.com , Inc apply to goods such as gadgets and board games offered by third-party sellers as the holiday season comes near .
However , the world 's biggest retailer still pays the full price to the product 's sellers .
The Wall Street Journal wrote that Amazon is providing discounts of up to 9 % on those products .
According to an Amazon spokeswoman , the discount benefits both sellers and customers .
People can buy products they want at a price they 'll love , while small business owners will be able to boost their sales thanks discounted prices , without it actually coming out of the sellers ' pockets .
However , not all merchants are happy with Amazon 's aggressive practices as it tries to monopolize online selline .
In particular , selling products at the lower-than-usual price may trigger the ire of Amazon 's resellers , who may be forced to move to other online shops to sell or re-sell their goods .
Amazon.com , Inc has been slammed for discounting vendors products in the past .
Resellers stated that the retail giant 's decision would undervalue their items and hurt their sales .
Moreover , merchants have argued that the lower prices offered on the retailer 's website may actually break their agreement .
Many are only allowed to sell their products after agreeing to a minimum rate for that product , which Amazon itself may now be undercutting , giving them no way to compete .
It 's no surprise that resellers have been venting their anger on the Amazon Resellers forum .
According to the Wall Street Journal 's analysis , the discounts do n't exceed 10 % and only apply to merchants using Amazon 's in-house fulfilment option .
However , merchants are sometimes not notified in case there is a change e.g. , when the offers suddenly disappear from the website .
Amazon.com , Inc reported a 34 % increase in third-quarter sales last month , to $ 43.7 billion .
The figure was better than the company 's estimate of $ 42.1 billion .
The online retailer 's CEO Jeff Bezos said that he planned to sell the stock starting on November 1 , 2017 .
Amazon shares are now valued at over $ 1,100 , thanks to 8 % gains following the company 's latest earnings report .