Can The Google Wal-Mart Partnership Threaten Amazon ?
Wal-Mart is leaving no stone unturned in its bid to take on Amazon in the battle for retail market share .
After Amazon acquired Whole Foods , indicating its seriousness in the grocery business and expanding its physical presence , Wal-Mart has been ramping up its digital initiatives to build a technology edge .
From patents for `` floating warehouses '' enabling drone delivery , to pick-up towers to improve in-store pick up , Wal-Mart is ensuring that it does not lag behind in the race .
Taking these initiatives a step further , the company is now partnering with Google to offer its products for sale via Google 's voice assistant .
Wal-Mart will integrate its products with Google Express , through which customers will be able to place voice orders and get personalized recommendations based on past orders .
This appears to be a direct counter to Amazon 's Alexa voice assistant , which allows users to shop on Amazon via voice commands .
Wal-Mart is looking to expand its voice shopping capability next year and is likely to bring this experience to its 4,700 stores .
Convenience Matched With Value
Amazon is looking to take the grocery shopping experience to another level of convenience through its test of AmazonGo , which allows users to pick up the items they need and walk out of the store -- and their Amazon accounts get seamlessly charged for the products they take .
However , Wal-Mart is ensuring that it does not lose out on the convenience front along with its core value proposition of offering products at lower prices .
Through voice shopping , pick-up discounts , free two-day shipping and low prices , the company is well-poised to maintain and increase its share in the grocery segment .
The partnership with Google is a win-win situation for both companies .
Google 's expertise in natural language processing and artificial intelligence can ensure that a high quality voice shopping experience is delivered via its voice assistant .
Further , as Google is looking to expand in the home smart speaker segment and compete effectively with Amazon 's Echo , a voice shopping experience through its assistant can be an attractive feature .
Both Google and Wal-Mart are competing with Amazon in different segments .
This partnership indicates that both players are willing to combine their strengths to take on the e-commerce giant .
While we do not expect this partnership to threaten Amazon meaningfully , given its strong user base , deep pockets and technological expertise , it is a sign that Amazon is going to face some tough competition going forward .