Walmart Could Beat Amazon In 2018
Walmart has turned the tables on Amazon lately by applying `` smart pricing '' to capitalize on its established traditional retail space and its growing on-line retailing .
And it is working , at least on Wall Street , where Walmart is catching up with Amazon .
Walmart 's shares have gained 24.55 % in the last six months and 41.71 % over YTD compared to 16.39 % and 53.85 % of Amazon .
Over recent years , Walmart has expanded aggressively into online sales by hiring software developers , acquiring on-line retailers , and by leveraging its large retail presence to deliver speedier merchandise delivery .
And that 's paid off , as evidenced by the rapid growth in the company 's online sales , which have helped re-ignite overall sales growth .
This trend is expected to continue in 2018 , sending the company 's shares even higher , outpacing those of Amazon .
`` Both companies look good and have the right strategy , which is crucial , '' says John Malindretos , Professor of Finance at William Paterson University .
`` MWT is the superior low-cost seller in brick and mortar and AMZN online .
WMT , of course , is getting into online , and recently is doing extremely well .
If I were to choose one of the two , it would be WMT . ''
Malindretos ' choice is a matter of value over growth .
`` Walmart is a value stock , while AMZN is a growth one .
WMT is cheap in comparison .
I am looking at P/sales , P/EPS , and market value to book value .
They are not close at all .
For example , WMT has a MV/BV of 3.5 , while AMZN 24.5 times . ''
Then there 's Walmart 's enormous cash flow , currently used to pay dividends to its stockholders and for company buy-backs .
Malindretos suggests that the company discontinue its share buybacks and plow the funds into web infrastructure .
`` The reason WMT can invest even more massively into the web is that pays dividends of $ 6.5 billion and spends $ 8.4 to buy its stock .
It can easily discontinue buying its stock , '' he adds .
`` It needs to concentrate on growth by investing into the web infrastructure .
Conceivably , it can convert a few of its stores into online warehouses .
Thus , WMT has the ability to compete successfully on the online turf . ''
Meanwhile , the assumption often made that traditional retailing is going away is exaggerated , according to Malindretos .
This means that markets may have unfairly punished Walmart for its physical retail presence , which the company has been utilizingeffectively in this year 's holiday season .