Wal-Mart Plans to Cut More Than 1,000 Corporate Jobs
A day after promising to give its store workers raises and bonuses , Wal-Mart Stores Inc. is preparing to hand out pink slips at its headquarters .
The giant retailer , which is based in Bentonville , Ark. , and employs more than 1.5 million people in the U.S. , plans to cut more than 1,000 corporate jobs , according to people familiar with the matter .
The job cuts are expected to be broad-based , focused on workers primarily at the company 's headquarters , the people said .
The cuts are expected to be completed by the end of the company 's fiscal year on Jan. 31 , they added .
`` We 've been looking at our structure for some time as we explore ways to operate more effectively , '' a Wal-Mart spokesman said , without confirming that job cuts are planned this month .
The expected corporate job cuts add to around 10,000 store jobs being eliminated this month as Wal-Mart closes 63 Sam 's Club locations , about 10 % of the warehouse club 's U.S. stores .
The company disclosed the Sam 's Club closings on Thursday , the same day it said it would raise starting wages for U.S. store workers , hand out one-time bonuses and enhance parental benefits .
The retailer has been cutting costs and pruning stores as it frees up money to invest in an e-commerce push to fend off Amazon.com Inc.
It closed 154 U.S. Wal-Mart stores in 2016 and has since slowed openings , while buying a series of online retailers including Jet.com .
Wal-Mart is also reviewing the structure of its store management , adding more assistant managers that will focus on new activities happening in stores like online order pickup , while eliminating other manager positions , said one of the people familiar with the plans .
The retailer is adjusting an existing position called co-manager to be more clearly a steppingstone to become a store manager , said this person .
Some of the co-managers whose jobs are eliminated will move into the new assistant manager positions or other roles , said this person .
`` Retail is changing rapidly and we are transforming to meet the needs of our customers , '' said Wal-Mart spokesman Blake Jackson .
`` To help compete and win in this environment , we must make changes across our company to enable further investments in our strategic business priorities and growth . ''
In recent years Wal-Mart has shifted how it allocates other store management positions , for example adding more department managers to keep shelves consistently stocked and improve customer service .
On Thursday , Chief Executive Doug McMillon said the wage increases and bonuses were the retailer 's response to a U.S. tax overhaul that will decrease the corporate tax rate to 21 % from 35 % .
But analysts said the cost of the moves were just a slice of the company 's expected tax benefit and the retailer was also reacting to competition for low-skilled hourly workers .
Under Mr. McMillon Wal-Mart has had several rounds of job cuts , including about 7,000 back-office store jobs and about 16,000 positions from store closures in 2016 and over 1,000 corporate jobs early last year .
It has also added thousands of positions to stores including workers who collect items for online pickup orders , said a spokesman .
Around two-thirds of the workers whose jobs were cut during the 2016 store closures remained with the company , he said .
The company employs more than two million people world-wide .
Corrections & Amplifications
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. cut around 7,000 back office store jobs in 2016 .
An earlier version of this story incorrectly said those cuts occurred in 2015 .